Part 7    By-laws for strata schemes   
===============================================================================
Division 1    Interpretation
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 133  Definitions
In this Part:  
___change___ the by-laws for a strata scheme means amend or repeal the by-laws or add to the by-laws.  
___previous law___ means:
(a) Division 3 of Part 5 of Chapter 2 of the [Strata Schemes Management Act 1996], as in force immediately before its repeal, or   
(b) Division 1 of Part 2 of the [Strata Schemes (Freehold Development) Act 1973], as in force immediately before its repeal, or   
(c) Division 1 of Part 2 of the [Strata Schemes (Leasehold Development) Act 1986], as in force immediately before its repeal.   
   

Division 2    Establishment and effect of by-laws
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 134  By-laws that apply to strata schemes
(1) __New strata schemes__  
    The by-laws in force for a strata scheme that came into existence after the commencement of this section are the by-laws adopted by or lodged with the strata plan registered by the Registrar-General for the strata scheme, as changed in accordance with this Act.  
(2) __Strata schemes 1997 to commencement of section__ 
    The by-laws in force for a strata scheme that came into existence after the commencement of the [Strata Schemes Management Act 1996] and before the commencement of this section are the by-laws adopted by or lodged with the strata plan registered by the Registrar-General for the strata scheme, including any changes to the by-laws made in accordance with that Act or in accordance with this Act.
    > *Note* The [Strata Schemes Management Act 1996] commenced on 1 July 1997.  
(3) __Strata schemes before 1996__  
    The by-laws in force for a strata scheme that was in existence before the commencement of the [Strata Schemes Management Act 1996] are the by-laws set out in the regulations for the purposes of this section, including any changes to the by-laws made in accordance with a previous law or in accordance with this Act.   


#### 135  Requirement to comply with by-laws
(1) The by-laws for a strata scheme bind the owners corporation and the owners of lots in the strata scheme and any mortgagee or covenant chargee in possession, or tenant or occupier, of a lot to the same extent as if the by-laws:
(a) had been signed and sealed by the owners corporation and each owner and each such mortgagee, covenant chargee, tenant and occupier, and
(b) contained mutual covenants to observe and perform all the provisions of the by-laws.   
(2) There is an implied covenant by the tenant of a lot or common property to comply with the by-laws for the strata scheme.
    > *Note* The effect of having been taken to have signed and sealed a by-law is that the person is always taken to have known about it.   


#### 136  Matters by-laws can provide for
(1) By-laws may be made in relation to the management, administration, control, use or enjoyment of the lots or the common property and lots of a strata scheme.  
(2) A by-law has no force or effect to the extent that it is inconsistent with this or any other Act or law.   


#### 137  Occupancy limits
(1) A by-law may limit the number of adults who may reside in a lot by reference to the number of bedrooms of the residence.  
(2) The limit may not be fewer than 2 adults per bedroom.  
(3) The by-law has no effect:
(a) to the extent to which it is inconsistent with any planning approval or other law applicable to the lot, or
(b) in any other circumstances prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this section.   
(4) To avoid doubt, the Tribunal may make an order under Division 5 about a by-law made under this section.  
(5) The regulations may provide for the circumstances when a person is a resident of a lot for the purposes of a by-law made under this section.  
(6) For the purposes of this section, a ___bedroom___ is a room approved for use as a bedroom under, or indicated as a bedroom in any plans the subject of, a planning approval and includes any other room prescribed by the regulations as a bedroom for the purposes of this section.   


#### 138  Model by-laws
The regulations may prescribe model by-laws that may be adopted as the by-laws for a strata scheme.   


#### 139  Restrictions on by-laws
(1) __By-law cannot be unjust__
    A by-law must not be harsh, unconscionable or oppressive.
    > *Note* Any such by-law may be invalidated by the Tribunal (see section 150).  
(2) __By-law cannot prevent dealing relating to lot__  
    No by-law is capable of operating to prohibit or restrict the devolution of a lot or a transfer, lease, mortgage or other dealing relating to a lot.  
(3) __By-law resulting from order cannot be changed__  
    If an order made by the Tribunal under this Act has effect as if its terms were a by-law, that by-law is not capable of being amended or repealed except by a by-law made in accordance with a unanimous resolution of the owners corporation and, in the case of a leasehold strata scheme, with the consent of the lessor of the scheme.  
(4) __By-law cannot restrict children__  
    A by-law for a residential strata scheme has no force or effect to the extent to which it purports to prohibit or restrict persons under 18 years of age occupying a lot. This subsection does not apply to a by-law for a strata scheme for a retirement village or housing exclusively for aged persons.  
(5) __By-law cannot prevent keeping of assistance animal__  
    A by-law has no force or effect to the extent to which it purports to prohibit or restrict the keeping on a lot of an assistance animal (as referred to in section 9 of the [Disability Discrimination Act 1992] of the Commonwealth) used by an owner or occupier of the lot as an assistance animal or the use of an assistance animal for that purpose by a person on a lot or common property.  
(6) A by-law may require a person who keeps an assistance animal on a lot to produce evidence to the owners corporation that the animal is an assistance animal as referred to in section 9 of the [Disability Discrimination Act 1992] of the Commonwealth.  
(7) __Community management and precinct management statements prevail over by-laws__  
    A community management statement or a precinct management statement prevails to the extent of any inconsistency with a by-law for a strata scheme that is also part of a community scheme or precinct scheme.   


#### 140  Restrictions on by-laws during initial period
...


#### 141  Procedure for changes to by-laws
(1) An owners corporation may, in accordance with a special resolution of the owners corporation, change the by-laws of the strata scheme.  
(2) A change to the by-laws of a strata scheme has no effect until:
(a) the owners corporation has lodged a notification with the Registrar-General in the manner approved by the Registrar-General, and
(b) the Registrar-General has made an appropriate recording of the notification in the folio of the Register for the common property.   
(3) The secretary of the owners corporation must keep a consolidated up to date copy of the by-laws for the strata scheme.  
(4) A notification cannot be lodged in the Registrar-General’s office more than 6 months after the passing of the resolution to make the by-law.   


Division 3    By-laws conferring rights or privileges over common property
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 142  Common property rights by-law
For the purposes of this Act, a ___common property rights by-law___ is a by-law that confers on the owner or owners of a specified lot or lots in the strata scheme:
(a) a right of exclusive use and enjoyment of the whole or any specified part of the common property, or
(b) special privileges in respect of the whole or any specified part of the common property (including, for example, a licence to use the whole or any specified part of the common property in a particular manner or for particular purposes),  

or that changes such a by-law.   


#### 143  Requirements and effect of common property rights by-laws
(1) An owners corporation may make a common property rights by-law only with the written consent of each owner on whom the by-law confers rights or special privileges.
    > *Note* Any addition to the by-laws will require a special resolution (see section 141).  
(2) A common property rights by-law may confer rights or special privileges subject to conditions specified in the by-law (such as a condition requiring the payment of money by the owner or owners concerned, at specified times or as determined by the owners corporation).  
(3) A common property rights by-law may be made even though the person on whom the right of exclusive use and enjoyment or the special privileges are to be conferred had that exclusive use or enjoyment or enjoyed those special privileges before the making of the by-law.  
(4) After 2 years from the making, or purported making, of a common property rights by-law, it is conclusively presumed that all conditions and preliminary steps precedent to the making of the by-law were complied with and performed.   


#### 144  Common property rights by-law must provide for maintenance of property
(1) A common property rights by-law must:
(a) provide that the owners corporation is to continue to be responsible for the proper maintenance of, and keeping in a state of good and serviceable repair, the common property or the relevant part of it, or
(b) impose on the owner or owners of the lots the responsibility for that maintenance and upkeep.   
(2) Any money payable under a common property rights by-law by more than one owner to the owners corporation or to any person for or towards the maintenance or upkeep of any common property is payable by those owners proportionately according to the relative proportions of their respective unit entitlements of their lots unless the by-law otherwise provides.  
(3) To the extent to which a common property rights by-law makes a person directly responsible for the proper maintenance of, and keeping in a state of good and serviceable repair, any common property, it discharges the owners corporation from its obligations to maintain and repair the property under this Act.   


#### 145  Common property rights by-law binding on owners for time being
(1) A common property rights by-law, while it remains in force, continues to operate for the benefit of, and is binding on, the owner or owners for the time being of the lot or lots specified in the by-law.  
(2) If a person becomes the owner of a lot when, under a by-law or under this subsection, a former owner is liable to pay money to the owners corporation, the person who becomes the owner is jointly and severally liable with the former owner to pay the money to the owners corporation.  
(3) Any money payable by an owner to the owners corporation under a common property rights by-law or under subsection (2) may be recovered, as a debt in a court of competent jurisdiction, by the owners corporation.   


Division 4    Enforcement of by-laws
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 146  Notice by owners corporation to owner or occupier
(1) An owners corporation for a strata scheme may give a notice, in a form approved by the Secretary, to the owner or occupier of a lot in the scheme requiring the owner or occupier to comply with a specified by-law if the owners corporation is satisfied that the owner or occupier has contravened that by-law.  
(2) The notice must contain a copy of the specified by-law.  
(3) A notice must not be given unless a resolution approving the issue of the notice, or the issue of notices for the type of contravention concerned, has first been passed by the owners corporation at a general meeting or by the strata committee of the owners corporation.  
(4) Subsection (3) does not apply to the giving of a notice by a strata managing agent if that function has been delegated to the strata managing agent in accordance with this Act.   


#### 147  Civil penalty for breach of by-laws
(1) The Tribunal may, on application by an owners corporation, order a person to pay a monetary penalty of up to 10 penalty units if the Tribunal is satisfied that:
(a) the owners corporation gave a notice under this Division to the person requiring the person to comply with a by-law, and
(b) the person has since contravened the by-law.   
(2) The Tribunal may, on application by an owners corporation, order a person to pay a monetary penalty of up to 20 penalty units if the Tribunal is satisfied that the person has contravened a by-law within 12 months after the Tribunal had imposed a monetary penalty on the person for a previous breach of the by-law.  
(3) Despite subsections (1) and (2), the Tribunal may, in dealing with a contravention of a by-law made under section 137, impose a monetary penalty of up to 50 penalty units under subsection (1) and a monetary penalty of up to 100 penalty units under subsection (2).  
(4) An application for an order under subsection (1) must be made not later than 12 months after the notice was given.  
(5) An owners corporation is not required to give notice under this Division before applying for an order under subsection (2).  
(6) A monetary penalty is payable to the owners corporation, unless the Tribunal otherwise orders.
    > *Note* The penalty may be registered as a judgment debt and will be enforceable accordingly (see section 78 of the [Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013]).   


Division 5    Orders about by-laws
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 148  Order revoking amendment of by-law or reviving repealed by-law
(1) The Tribunal may, on application by a person entitled to vote on the amendment or repeal of a by-law or addition of a new by-law or the lessor of a leasehold strata scheme, make one of the following orders:
(a) an order that the amendment be revoked,
(b) an order that the repealed by-law be revived,
(c) an order that the additional by-law be repealed.   
(2) The Tribunal may make an order only if the Tribunal considers that, having regard to the interest of all owners of lots in a strata scheme in the use and enjoyment of their lots or the common property, the change to the by-laws should not have been made by the owners corporation.  
(3) An order under this section, when recorded under section 246, has effect as if its terms were a by-law (but subject to any relevant order made by a superior court).  
(4) When making an order under this section in relation to a common property rights by-law, the Tribunal may direct the payment by the owners corporation of compensation to the owner of the lot, or owners of the lots, referred to in the by-law.
    > *Note* Section 78 of the [Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013] provides for the recovery as a judgment debt of amounts ordered to be paid by the Tribunal.  
(5) An order under this section operates on and from the date on which it is so recorded or from an earlier date specified in the order.   


#### 149  Order with respect to common property rights by-laws
(1) The Tribunal may make an order prescribing a change to a by-law if the Tribunal finds:
(a) on application made by an owner of a lot in a strata scheme, that the owners corporation has unreasonably refused to make a common property rights by-law, or
(b) on application made by an owner or owners corporation, that an owner of a lot, or the lessor of a leasehold strata scheme, has unreasonably refused to consent to the terms of a proposed common property rights by-law, or to the proposed amendment or repeal of a common property rights by-law, or
(c) on application made by any interested person, that the conditions of a common property rights by-law relating to the maintenance or upkeep of any common property are unjust.   
(2) In considering whether to make an order, the Tribunal must have regard to:
(a) the interests of all owners in the use and enjoyment of their lots and common property, and
(b) the rights and reasonable expectations of any owner deriving or anticipating a benefit under a common property rights by-law.   
(3) The Tribunal must not determine an application by an owner on the ground that the owners corporation has unreasonably refused to make a common property rights by-law by an order prescribing the making of a by-law in terms to which the applicant or, in the case of a leasehold strata scheme, the lessor of the scheme is not prepared to consent.  
(4) The Tribunal may determine that an owner has unreasonably refused consent even though the owner already has the exclusive use or privileges that are the subject of the proposed by-law.  
(5) An order under this section, when recorded under section 246, has effect as if its terms were a by-law (but subject to any relevant order made by a superior court).  
(6) An order under this section operates on and from the date on which it is so recorded or from an earlier date specified in the order.   


#### 150  Order invalidating by-law
(1) The Tribunal may, on the application of a person entitled to vote on the motion to make a by-law or the lessor of a leasehold strata scheme, make an order declaring a by-law to be invalid if the Tribunal considers that an owners corporation did not have the power to make the by-law or that the by-law is harsh, unconscionable or oppressive.  
(2) The order, when recorded under section 246, has effect as if its terms were a by-law repealing the by-law declared invalid by the order (but subject to any relevant order made by a superior court).  
(3) An order under this section operates on and from the date on which it is so recorded or from an earlier date specified in the order.   


Part 8    Obligations of owners, occupiers and others relating to lots   
===============================================================================
Division 1    Obligations relating to lots
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 151  Owners, occupiers and other persons not to interfere with support or shelter provided by lot or with services
An owner, mortgagee or covenant chargee in possession, tenant or occupier of a lot in a strata scheme must not do anything or permit anything to be done on or in relation to that lot so that:
(a) any support or shelter provided by that lot for another lot or common property is interfered with, or
(b) the passage or provision of water, sewage, drainage, gas, electricity, garbage, artificially heated or cooled air, heating oil and other services (including telephone, internet, radio and television services) through or by means of any pipes, wires, cables or ducts for the time being in the lot is interfered with.   
   

#### 152  Owner must notify owners corporation of alteration to lot structure
The owner of a lot in a strata scheme must not alter the structure of a lot without giving to the owners corporation, not later than 14 days before commencement of the alteration, a written notice describing the proposed alteration.
> *Note* The right of an owner to alter the structure of a lot is also subject to other provisions of this Act relating to approvals that are required to carry out work affecting the common property.   


#### 153  Owners, occupiers and other persons not to create nuisance
(1) An owner,  mortgagee or covenant chargee in possession, tenant or occupier of a lot in a strata scheme must not:
(a) use or enjo y the lot, or permit the lot to be used or enjoyed, in a manner or for a purpose that causes a nuisance or hazard to the occupier of any other lot (whether that person is an owner or not), or
(b) use or enjoy the common property in a manner or for a purpose that interferes unreasonably with the use or enjoyment of the common property by the occupier of any other lot (whether that person is an owner or not) or by any other person entitled to the use and enjoyment of the common property, or
(c) use or enjoy the common property in a manner or for a purpose that interferes unreasonably with the use or enjoyment of any other lot by the occupier of the lot (whether that person is an owner or not) or by any other person entitled to the use and enjoyment of the lot.   
    > *Note* Depending on the circumstances in which it occurs, the penetration of smoke from smoking into a lot or common property may cause a nuisance or hazard and may interfere unreasonably with the use or enjoyment of the common property or another lot.  
(2) This section does not operate to prevent the due exercise of rights conferred on a developer by the operation of section 82 of the [Strata Schemes Development Act 2015].

> *Note* Division 1 of Part 6 contains provisions about the circumstances in which owners of lots may carry out work that affects common property.   


Division 2    Agents for owners
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 154  Appointment of agents by corporations to exercise functions in relation to lots
(1) A corporation may authorise an individual (a ___company nominee___) to  exercise on its behalf any function conferred by or under this Act on the corporation as owner or mortgagee of a lot or as a covenant chargee having the benefit of a covenant charge affecting a lot. The corporation may revoke the authority of any individual so authorised.  
(2) A function exercised with respect to a lot by a company nominee of an owner, mortgagee or covenant chargee is taken to have been exercised with respect to the lot by the owner, mortgagee or covenant chargee.  
(3) This section does not affect any liability or obligation imposed by or under this Act on a corporation which is an owner or mortgagee of a lot or a covenant chargee.  
(4) A document under the seal of a corporation purporting to be an authorisation under this section or to be a revocation of an authorisation is admissible in evidence and is, unless the contrary is proved, taken to be an authorisation or revocation.


#### 155  Owner may appoint agent if not able to deal with notices 
(1) An owner of a lot in a strata scheme may appoint an agent to receive notices and other documents under this Act if the owner is unable to deal with those notices because of intellectual impairment or physical impairment, illiteracy or an inability to read or write English sufficiently well or absence from the lot.  
(2) A person must not be appointed as an agent unless the person is a resident of Australia.  
(3) An appointment of an agent may be made at any time and may be revoked at any time.  
(4) However, the appointment or revocation has no effect until communicated to the owners corporation and recorded in the strata roll.  
(5) If an agent for an owner has been so appointed and the name and address for service of the agent is recorded on the strata roll, notices or other documents required to be given to the owner under this Act are to be given to the agent.   


Division 3    Keeping of animals on lots
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 156  Order for removal of an animal not permitted under by-laws
(1) The Tribunal may, on application by an interested person, order a person to cause an animal to be removed from a parcel within a specified time, and to be kept away from the parcel, if the Tribunal considers that the person is keeping an animal on the parcel in contravention of the by-laws.  
(2) An order under this section ceases to have effect if the keeping of the animal is subsequently authorised in accordance with the by-laws.   


#### 157  Order permitting keeping of animal
(1) The Tribunal may, on application by the owner or occupier (with the consent of the owner) of a lot in a strata scheme, make an order declaring that the applicant may keep an animal on the lot or common property.  
(2) The Tribunal must not make the order unless it is satisfied that:
(a) the by-laws permit the keeping of an animal with the approval of the owners corporation and provide that the owners corporation cannot unreasonably withhold consent to the keeping of an animal, and
(b) the owners corporation has unreasonably withheld its approval to the keeping of the animal on the lot or common property.   
   

#### 158  Order for removal of an animal permitted under by-laws
(1) The Tribunal may, on application by an interested person, make an order against a person who is keeping an animal on a lot or common property in accordance with the by-laws for a strata scheme, if the Tribunal considers that the animal causes a nuisance or hazard to the owner or occupier of another lot or unreasonably interferes with the use or enjoyment of another lot or of the common property.  
(2) The Tribunal may order that the person:
(a) cause the animal to be removed from the parcel within a specified time, and be kept away from the parcel, or
(b) within a time specified in the order, take such action as, in the opinion of the Tribunal, will terminate the nuisance or hazard or unreasonable interference.   
   

#### 159  Effect of orders
An order under this Division binds the following persons, despite any by-law of the strata scheme:
(a) each owner and occupier of a lot in the strata scheme and the owners corporation for the strata scheme,
(b) each person who is bound by the strata management statement for the building and its site,
(c) in the case of a leasehold strata scheme, the lessor of the scheme.   
   

Part 9    Insurance   
===============================================================================
Division 1    Owners corporation insurance obligations
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 160  Owners corporation to insure building
(1) The owners corporation for a strata scheme for the whole of a building must insure the building and keep the building insured under a contract of insurance, in accordance with this Division, that insures the building if it is destroyed or damaged by fire, lightning, explosion or any other occurrence specified in the policy (a ___damage policy___). 
    Maximum penalty: 5 penalty units.  
(2) The owners corporation for each strata scheme for part of a building and any other person in whom is vested an estate in fee simple in part of the building that is not included in the parcel of the strata scheme must insure the building and keep the building insured under a damage policy. 
    Maximum penalty: 5 penalty units.  
(3) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (2), it is a defence to establish that the defendant was willing to join in the insurance of a building under a damage policy but that the policy could not be taken out because another person specified in that subsection was unwilling to join in the application for that policy.  
(4) This section does not apply to an owners corporation for a strata scheme comprising 2 lots if:
(a) the owners corporation so determines by unanimous resolution, and
(b) the buildings comprised in one of those lots are physically detached from the buildings comprised in the other lot, and
(c) no building or part of a building in the strata scheme is situated outside those lots.   
(5) A damage policy may consist of one or more policies of insurance.   


#### 161  Requirements for damage policy
(1) __General requirements__  
    The damage policy for a building must be with an approved insurer, be in the name of the owners corporation, and any other person required to insure under section 160 and provide for the following:
(a) the building is to be insured for at least the amount determined in accordance with the regulations,
(b) if the building is destroyed, the building is to be rebuilt or replaced so that the condition of every part of the rebuilt or replacement building is not worse or less extensive than that part when new,
(c) if the building is damaged but not destroyed, the damaged part of the building is to be repaired or restored so that the condition of the repaired or restored part is not worse or less extensive than that part when new,
(d) expenses incurred in removing debris are payable,
(e) the remuneration of architects and other persons whose services are necessary as an incident to the rebuilding, replacement, repair or restoration is payable.   
(2) __Limited sum liability__  
    Instead of providing for work and payments being made if a building is destroyed or damaged, the damage policy may limit the liability of the insurer in that event to an amount specified in the policy. The amount must not be less than an amount calculated in accordance with the regulations.  
(3) __Parts of building to be covered__ 
    The parts of a building to be covered by a damage policy include the following:
(a) owners’ improvements and owners’ fixtures forming part of the building,
(b) a building consisting entirely of common property,
(c) anything prescribed by the regulations as forming part of a building for the purposes of this section.   
(4) __Parts of building not required to be covered__ 
    The following parts of a building are not required to be covered by a damage policy:
(a) fixtures removable by a tenant at the expiration of a tenancy,
(b) owners’ improvements and fixtures comprising paint, wallpaper and temporary wall, floor and ceiling coverings,
(c) anything prescribed by the regulations as not forming part of a building for the purposes of this section.   
   

#### 162  Insurance premiums where strata scheme is for part only of building
(1) This section applies if a requirement is imposed on an owners corporation for a strata scheme for part of a building and any other person to insure the building under a damage policy.  
(2) The premium for a damage policy is to be paid by the owners corporation or other person according to the proportion that the replacement value of the part (or parts) of the building subject to the strata scheme or held in fee simple by the other person bears to the replacement value of the whole building.  
(3) The Tribunal may, on application by an owners corporation or other person liable to pay a proportion of a premium, determine the replacement value and proportion payable. The determination is binding on each person liable to pay a proportion.  
(4) The Tribunal may, on application by any person liable under this section to pay a proportion of a premium, make an order adjusting the proportion payable by a person to reflect that the use to which a part of a building in which that person has the fee simple is put causes an insurance premium under this section to be greater than it would be if it were not put to that use.   


#### 163  Use of insurance money by owners corporation
(1) An owners corporation that receives money from an insurer for the destruction of or damage to a building must immediately apply that money in rebuilding, replacing, repairing or restoring the building.  
(2) This section does not apply to an owners corporation if the owners corporation determines, by unanimous resolution, that the money is not to be so applied.  
(3) This section is subject to any order made under the [Strata Schemes Development Act 2015].   


#### 164  Other mandatory insurance requirements for owners corporation
(1) An owners corporation must take out the following insurance with an approved insurer, in addition to any other requirements of this Part:
(a) insurance in respect of any occurrence against which it is required by law to insure, including any insurance required by the [Workers Compensation Act 1987] and the [Workplace Injury Management and Workers Compensation Act 1998] to be taken out,
(b) insurance in respect of damage to property, death or bodily injury for which the owners corporation could become liable in damages,
(c) insurance against the possibility of the owners becoming jointly liable because of a claim arising in respect of any other occurrence against which the owners corporation, in accordance with a special resolution, decides to insure,
(d) insurance against any damages for which the owners corporation could become liable because, without fee or reward or any expectation of fee or reward, a person acting on behalf of the owners corporation does work in a building or on the common property in the strata scheme,
(e) insurance of any other class prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this subsection.

  Maximum penalty: 5 penalty units.  
(2) Insurance taken out in accordance with subsection (1) (b) must be for a cover of not less than $10,000,000 for each event for which any claim or claims may be made or, if the regulations provide for another amount, that other amount.  
(3) The regulations may provide that the amount is to be calculated or determined in the manner prescribed by the regulations.   


#### 165  Owners corporation may take out other insurance
(1) An owners corporation may insure any property that it is not required to insure by this Part and in which it has an insurable interest.  
(2) An owners corporation may take out insurance, at its own expense, in respect of any of the following:
(a) damage to property, death or bodily injury for which a person holding the office of chairperson, secretary or treasurer of the owners corporation or of a member of the strata committee of the owners corporation could become liable in damages because of an act or omission, committed or omitted in good faith, in performing the functions of that office,
(b) misappropriation of money or other property of the owners corporation.   
(3) Any insurance taken out under this section must be taken out with an approved insurer.   


#### 166  Strata managing agent to obtain insurance quotations
A strata managing agent must provide the owners corporation with not less than 3 quotations from different providers for each type of insurance proposed by the agent to the owners corporation or provide written reasons to the owners corporation if less than 3 quotations are provided.   


Division 2    Insurance claims and other matters affecting insurance
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 167  Part does not limit owner’s insurance rights
(1) This Part does not limit any right of an owner of a lot in a strata scheme to take out insurance.  
(2) Insurance taken out by an owner of a lot in a strata scheme does not affect, and is not to be taken into consideration in determining, the amount payable to an owners corporation under a contract of insurance entered into between it and an insurer in accordance with this Part. This subsection has effect despite anything contained in the relevant contract of insurance.   


#### 168  Insurable interests
(1) A person (including an owners corporation) is taken to have an insurable interest in the subject-matter of a contract of insurance entered into by the person in accordance with this Part.  
(2) The owner of a lot is taken to have an insurable interest in a building comprised in the lot while the building is subject to a determination referred to in section 160 (4).  
(3) This section applies despite the provisions of section 23 of the [Imperial Acts Application Act 1969] or any other law relating to insurance.   


#### 169  Insurance of mortgaged lot
(1) An owner of a lot in a strata scheme may take out insurance in respect of damage to the lot for an amount equal to the amount secured at the date of the contract of insurance by mortgages of and any covenant charges affecting the lot.  
(2) The following provisions apply to the payment of an amount under the contract (subject to the terms of the contract):
(a) any payment to be made by the insurer in respect of damage must be made to the mortgagees and any covenant chargees whose interests are noted in the contract in order of their respective priorities,
(b) the amount must be the amount stated in the contract, the amount of the loss, or an amount sufficient, at the date of the loss, to discharge mortgages of and any covenant charges affecting the lot, whichever is the least amount,
(c) if the amount paid by the insurer equals the amount necessary to discharge a mortgage of the lot, the insurer is entitled to an assignment of that mortgage,
(d) if the amount paid by the insurer is less than the amount necessary to discharge a mortgage of the lot, the insurer is entitled to a sub-mortgage of that mortgage to secure the amount paid on terms and conditions agreed on as provided by subsection (3) or, failing agreement, on the same terms and conditions as those contained in the mortgage by the owner.   
(3) For the purposes of subsection (2) (d), any insurer and mortgagee may at any time, whether before or after a contract of insurance referred to in subsection (1) has been entered into by an owner of a lot, agree on the terms and conditions of the sub-mortgage.  
(4) The contract of insurance is not liable to be brought into contribution with any other such contract of insurance except another contract of insurance that is in respect of damage to the same lot and relates to the same debt.   


#### 170  Insurance claim where owner at fault
If an insurer of an owners corporation accepts a claim by the owners corporation based on an act or omission by an owner of a lot in the strata scheme, the insurer has no right of subrogation in relation to the owner based on that act or omission unless it is proved that the act or omission was wilful.


#### 171  Action against owners corporation by owner
An owner of a lot may bring any action against the owners corporation of which the owner is a member that the owner might have brought against the owners corporation if the owner had not been such a member.   


Division 3    Orders about insurance
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 172  Exemption by Tribunal from building insurance requirements
(1) The Tribunal may, on application by a person required by this Part to insure a building or structure, by order exempt the applicant:
(a) from compliance with the requirements to insure unconditionally, or
(b) with the written consent of the applicant, from compliance with those requirements subject to a condition that the applicant takes out insurance for the building that is specified in the order.   
(2) The Tribunal must not make an order unless:
(a) it is of the opinion that compliance with the requirements to insure is unnecessary or impracticable, and
(b) each other person required to insure the building has consented in writing to the making of the order or has, before the making of the order, been given an opportunity to make representations to the Tribunal with respect to the application for the order.   
(3) An owners corporation may apply for an order, or give a consent for the purposes of this section, only in accordance with a unanimous resolution.  
(4) If an owners corporation is required by a positive covenant to insure the building, an order must not be made until:
(a) at least 21 days after the Tribunal has given notice to the authority having the benefit of the covenant of the intention to make the order, and
(b) the Tribunal has considered any representations made during the 21-day period to the Tribunal by the authority in relation to the intended order.   
   

#### 173  Effect of exemption from building insurance requirements 
(1) A person exempted by the Tribunal from the requirement to insure a building is not under a duty to comply with the requirement or any corresponding requirement of a positive covenant.  
(2) However, if the exemption was granted subject to a condition, the person is under the duty, if in breach of that condition.   


#### 174  Order to make or pursue insurance claim
(1) The Tribunal may, on application, order any person who is entitled to the benefit of insurance taken out under this Act to make or pursue an insurance claim in relation to damage to the building or any other property to which the insurance relates, if the Tribunal considers the person has unreasonably refused to make or pursue the claim.  
(2) An application for an order may be made by any of the following:
(a) an owner or tenant of a lot in the strata scheme for the building or part of the building,
(b) the lessor of a leasehold strata scheme for the building or part of the building,
(c) if part of the building is included in a part strata parcel, any person in whom is vested an estate in fee simple or a leasehold estate, registered under the [Real Property Act 1900] in any part of the building or its site that is not included in a part strata parcel.   
   

#### 175  Orders requiring damage policy
(1) The Tribunal may, on application, order that a damage policy must be taken out for a specified amount, if the Tribunal is satisfied that there is a dispute about the amount for which any such insurance should be taken out or the proportions in which the premium should be paid.  
(2) The order may require insurance to be taken out in accordance with the order for a period of up to 90 days, but does not affect the requirement made by this Act to keep the building insured after that period.  
(3) The Tribunal may, on application, order that the amount of any insurance taken out for a damage policy or under section 164 (1) (c) must be varied to a specified amount, if the Tribunal considers that the amount of the current insurance is unreasonable.  
(4) An order must specify by whom the insurance is to be taken out or varied and (if the building is included in a part strata parcel) the proportions in which the premium is to be paid.  
(5) An application for an order under this section may be made by any of the following:
(a) an owner or a mortgagee of a lot shown on the strata roll, or a person having an interest in a lot, in a strata scheme for the whole or any part of the building concerned,
(b) the lessor of a leasehold strata scheme for the building or any part of the building concerned or by any owner or sublessee of the common property,
(c) if part of the building is included in a part strata parcel, any person in whom is vested (or who has an interest in) an estate in fee simple in any part of the building or its site that is not included in a part strata parcel or any mortgagee under a mortgage registered under the [Real Property Act 1900] of any such estate or interest,
(d) an authority having the benefit of a positive covenant affecting the building or its site.   


Part 10    Records and information about strata schemes   
===============================================================================
Division 1    Strata roll and other records
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 176  Form of records
A strata roll or any other record required to be made or stored by an owners corporation may be made or stored in the form determined by the owners corporation.   


#### 177  Owners corporation must prepare strata roll
An owners corporation must prepare and maintain a strata roll in accordance with this Division. 
    Maximum penalty: 5 penalty units.   


#### 178  Content of strata roll
(1) __Information about lots__  
  The following information must be recorded in the strata roll in relation to a particular lot in the strata scheme:
(a) the name of the holder of the estate in fee simple in the lot (in the case of a freehold strata scheme) or the holder of the leasehold estate in the lot (in the case of a leasehold strata scheme),
(b) an address for service of notices,
(c) an Australian postal address, and an email address if the holder has one, if not provided as the address for service,
(d) the name of the holder’s agent (if any) appointed in accordance with this Act and the agent’s address for service of notices,
(e) information provided under a strata interest notice,
(f) information provided under a tenancy notice.   
(2) __Information about common property and strata scheme__  
  The following information must be recorded in the strata roll in relation to the common property of the strata scheme and the scheme in general:
(a) the strata plan number and the address of the strata scheme building,
(b) the names of the original owner and any strata managing agent of the owners corporation and their addresses for service of notices,
(c) the aggregate unit entitlement of the scheme and the unit entitlement of each lot,
(d) particulars of insurance taken out by the owners corporation, including the following:  
(i) the name of the insurance company,
(ii) the number of the insurance policy,
(iii) the nature of the risk insured,
(iv) the amount of the insurance,
(v) the due date for payment of the premium,
(vi) the date on which the premium was last paid,   
(e) the by-laws for the time being in force for the strata scheme,
(f) if the scheme was registered before the commencement of Part 10 of the [Strata Schemes Development Act 2015], whether that Part applies to the scheme.   
(3) __Sources of information for strata roll__  
  The owners corporation may make or amend entries in the strata roll on the basis of information contained in the Register or provided under a strata interest notice or a tenancy notice (to the extent that information so provided is not inconsistent with information contained in the Register). Information provided under any such notice may be presumed to be consistent with information contained in the Register until the contrary is evident.   


#### 179  Notices and orders to be kept
An owners corporation must cause the following to be recorded:
(a) particulars of any notice given to the owners corporation under this or any other Act, any order under this Act given to the owners corporation and any order made by a court or tribunal and given to the owners corporation,
(b) the date on which it was given and the manner in which it was given,
(c) the part of the parcel to which it relates,
(d) the date by which compliance is required,
(e) the date on which it is complied with.   

Maximum penalty: 5 penalty units.   


#### 180  Certain records to be retained for prescribed period
(1) An owners corporation must cause the following to be retained for 7 years:
(a) any records, notices and orders required to be kept under this Division or Part 10 of the [Strata Schemes Development Act 2015],
(b) minutes of meetings required to be kept under Schedule 1 or Schedule 2,
(c) its financial statements and accounting records,
(d) copies of correspondence received and sent by the owners corporation,
(e) notices of meetings of the owners corporation and its strata committee,
(f) proxies delivered to the owners corporation,
(g) voting papers relating to motions for resolutions by the owners corporation and to the election of officers or the establishment of a strata renewal committee (under Part 10 of the [Strata Schemes Development Act 2015]),
(h) a copy of any signed strata managing agent agreement or building manager agreement entered into by the owners corporation,
(i) records given to the owners corporation by the strata managing agent relating to the exercise of functions by the agent,
(j) any other documents prescribed by the regulations for the purposes of this section.   
  Maximum penalty: 5 penalty units.  

(2) The regulations may prescribe a different period for which any or all of the things referred to in subsection (1) are required to be retained.


#### 181  Owners corporation may require certain persons to produce records, accounts and property of the owners corporation
(1) If the strata committee of an owners corporation gives a notice to a person who has possession or control of property (including records) of the owners corporation requiring the person to deliver the property to the strata committee, the person must, not later than 14 days after the notice is given, deliver that property to a member of the strata committee specified in the notice. 
    Maximum penalty: 20 penalty units.  
(2) If the strata committee of an owners corporation gives a notice to a person who has possession or control of property (including records) of the owners corporation advising of the decision of the owners corporation to terminate the person’s appointment as strata managing agent, the person must, not later than 14 days after the notice is given, deliver that property to a member of the strata committee specified in the notice. 
    Maximum penalty: 20 penalty units.  
(3) This section does not take away or affect any just claim or lien which a strata managing agent may have against or on any records or other property of an owners corporation.  
(4) This section does not affect the operation of the [Property, Stock and Business Agents Act 2002].
    > *Note* The [Property, Stock and Business Agents Act 2002] contains requirements relating to the keeping of records under that Act.   


Division 2    Provision of information about strata schemes
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 182  Requests for inspection of records of owners corporation
(1) __Persons who may inspect__
    An owner, mortgagee or covenant chargee of a lot in a strata scheme, or a person authorised by the owner, mortgagee or covenant chargee, may request the owners corporation to allow an inspection to be carried out under this section.  
(2) __Form of request__  
    The request must be made by written notice given to the owners corporation and be accompanied by the fee prescribed by the regulations.  
(3) __Items to be made available for inspection__  
    The owners corporation must make the following items available for inspection by the person who makes the request or the person’s agent:
(a) the strata roll,
(b) any other records or documents required to be kept under this Part,
(c) the plans, specifications, certificates, diagrams and other documents required to be delivered to the owners corporation before its first annual general meeting by the original owner or the lessor of a leasehold strata scheme,
(d) if in its custody or under its control, the certificate of title comprising the common property or, in the case of a leasehold strata scheme, the certificate of title for the lease of the common property,
(e) any applicable 10-year capital works fund plan,
(f) the last financial statements prepared,
(g) every current policy of insurance taken out by the owners corporation and the receipt for the premium last paid for each such policy,
(h) if a strata managing agent has been appointed, a copy of the instrument of appointment,
(i) if a strata renewal plan has been given to owners for their consideration under Part 10 of the *Strata Schemes Development Act 2015*, a copy of the plan,
(j) any other record or document in the custody or under the control of the owners corporation,
(k) if the duties of the owners corporation under this subsection have been delegated to a strata managing agent, any other records (including records of the strata managing agent) relating to the strata scheme that are prescribed by the regulations,
(l) if a building manager agreement is in force or has been entered into but has not yet commenced, a copy of the building manager agreement,
(m) particulars of any service agreement entered into by the owners corporation,
(n) particulars of any agreement entered into with a local council for a strata parking area,
(o) if the request is made within 5 years after the end of the initial period, particulars of any orders made under section 27 and copies of any related contracts or other documents.  
    
  Maximum penalty: 5 penalty units.  
(4) __Meeting inspections__  
    For the purpose of complying with requirements for the giving of notice of a meeting of the owners corporation, the original owner (whether or not having ceased to be an owner) or an agent authorised in writing by the original owner is entitled to inspect the strata roll without payment on making a written application.   


#### 183  Inspection of owners corporation documents
(1) An inspection under this Division is to take place at the time and place, or by the means, agreed on and, failing agreement, at the parcel at a time and on a date, or by the means, fixed by the owners corporation under this section.  
(2) If an applicant and the owners corporation fail to reach an agreement within 3 days after the owners corporation receives the application, the owners corporation must immediately give the applicant a written notice fixing a specified time (between 9 am and 8 pm) on a specified date (not later than 10 days after the owners corporation receives the application), or a specified means, for the inspection to take place.  
(3) The means for inspecting documents may be in person or through electronic access to the documents or any other means agreed on or fixed under this section.  
(4) A person entitled to inspect a document may take extracts from, or make a copy of, the document but must not, without the consent of the owners corporation, remove the document from the custody of the owners corporation.   


#### 184  Certificate by owners corporation as to financial and other matters relating to lot
(1) __Persons who may request certificate__  
    An owner, mortgagee or covenant chargee of a lot in a strata scheme, or a person authorised by the owner, mortgagee or covenant chargee, may request the owners corporation for the strata scheme to give a certificate under this section (a ___strata information certificate___) in relation to a particular lot.  
(2) __Form of request__  
    The request must be made by written notice given to the owners corporation and be accompanied by the fee prescribed by the regulations.  
(3) __Information relating to lot to be included in strata information certificate__  
    The strata information certificate must specify the following information in respect of the lot and the strata scheme:
(a) the amount of any regular periodic contributions for the lot determined by the owners corporation under this Act, the periods for which those contributions are payable and any discounts applicable for early payment,
(b) whether there is any amount unpaid of any contributions determined for the lot and, if so, the amount unpaid and, in the case of a contribution levied for the capital works fund, the date on which the contribution was levied,
(c) whether there is any amount unpaid by an owner under a common property rights by-law or a by-law made under section 108,
(d) whether there is any amount unpaid of any contribution levied under section 81 (4) for the lot and, if so, the amount unpaid and the date on which it was levied,
(e) any amount and rate of interest payable in relation to any unpaid contribution referred to in this subsection,
(f) whether there is any amount recoverable from the owner of that lot for work carried out by the owners corporation,
(g) the proposals for funding the matters set out in the 10-year capital works fund plan,
(h) whether or not a strata renewal committee has been established in relation to the strata scheme under the [Strata Schemes Development Act 2015],
(i) any other information that is required to complete the certificate.   
(4) __Information relating to management of strata scheme to be included in strata information certificate__  
    The strata information certificate must state, as at the date of the certificate, the name and address of each member of the strata committee and of any strata managing agent and building manager appointed under this Act for the strata scheme.  
(5) __Extra information required in relation to community schemes__  
    If the strata scheme is part of a community scheme, the strata information certificate must also include the following information:
(a) the amount of any regular periodic contributions required to be made to the administrative fund and the capital works fund of the community association and the respective periods to which they relate,
(b) the amount of any such contribution that has not been paid,
(c) the date on which any regular periodic contribution to the administrative fund, and the capital works fund, of the association was levied,
(d) if the strata scheme is also part of a precinct scheme—the same information in relation to the precinct scheme as is required by this section in relation to the community scheme.   
(6) __Form of strata information certificate__  
    The strata information certificate must be in the form prescribed by the regulations.
(7) __When strata information certificate must be given__  
    An owners corporation must give a strata information certificate under this section not later than 14 days after receipt by it of an application for the certificate. 
    Maximum penalty: 5 penalty units.   


#### 185  Strata information certificate is evidence of matters stated in it
A strata information certificate is conclusive evidence, as at the date of the certificate, of the matters stated in it in favour of a person (whether or not the applicant for the certificate or a person referred to in the certificate) taking for valuable consideration:
(a) an estate or interest in a lot in a freehold strata scheme to which the certificate relates, or
(b) an estate or interest in a lease of a lot in a leasehold strata scheme to which the certificate relates.   
   

#### 186  Provision of strata scheme information to tenants
(1) The lessor or sub-lessor of a lot or common property in a strata scheme must give the tenant of the lot or common property a copy of the by-laws and any strata management statement affecting the lot or common property, not later than 14 days after the tenant becomes entitled to possession of the lot. 
    Maximum penalty: 5 penalty units.  
(2) The lessor or sub-lessor of a lot or common property in a strata scheme must, if the by-laws of the strata scheme are, or any strata management statement affecting the lot or common property is, changed, give the tenant of the lot or common property a copy of the changed by-laws not more than 14 days after the change takes effect. 
    Maximum penalty: 5 penalty units.  
(3) This section does not apply to a strata scheme that is part of a community scheme.   


Division 3    Orders about strata roll and records
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 187  Order confirming information for strata roll
(1) The Tribunal may, on application by an owners corporation, owner or other person having or acquiring an estate or interest in a lot in a strata scheme, order an owners corporation to enter information contained in a strata interest notice in the strata roll if a person fails to provide the required written confirmation of the notice.  
(2) In making the order, the Tribunal may amend the information in the strata interest notice to which the order relates in any manner the Tribunal thinks fit.  
(3) The Tribunal must dismiss an application for an order if the Tribunal considers that the rights of any person would be prejudiced if the order were made.  
(4) A copy of an order under this section given to an owners corporation is taken to be a strata interest notice given to the owners corporation and information entered on a strata roll in accordance with the order is taken to have been entered from a notice with any written confirmation required.   


#### 188  Order to supply information or documents
(1) The Tribunal may, on application by a person, order an owners corporation, strata managing agent, officer or former strata managing agent of an owners corporation to supply to the applicant information that the Tribunal considers that the owners corporation, strata managing agent, officer or former strata managing agent has wrongfully withheld from the applicant and to which the applicant is entitled under this Act.  
(2) The Tribunal may, on application by a person, order an owners corporation, strata managing agent, officer or former strata managing agent of an owners corporation to supply or make available to the applicant a record or document if:
(a) the Tribunal considers that the owners corporation, strata managing agent, officer or former strata managing agent has wrongfully failed to make the record or document available for inspection by the applicant or the applicant’s agent, and
(b) the applicant is entitled under this Act to inspect the record or document.   
(3) The order may specify the manner in which information is to be supplied or made available.   
   