# _NSW Police Force_ INDICTABLE BRIEF OF EVIDENCE COVERING SHEET   

\\n

>>> __H67089036__   

<!-- poENK PREMIT  Brief Manager   Date Received   Brief Checked   south   SupeMsor (sign)   Brief Manager (sign)  Date Checked  Supejvisor  Brief Manager   Comments -->


\\n
> | | |
|:----------------------- |:------------------------------------------------- |
__Accused:__                | JONATHON SAMUEL KRESNER   
__Offence/s__               | use carriage service to threaten serious harm   
__Court:__                  | WAVERLEY LOCAL COURT  \\n11 July 2018  \\nFOR MENTION   
__Police in Charge:__       | PROCON PAUL GACIC   
__Station:__                | EASTERN SUBURBS PAC   
__Telephone:__              | 02 9369 9899  
__Email:__                  | 52241@police.nsw.gov.au   
__Date served on Accused__  \\n __(or legal rep.):__      |
__Method of Service:__      | |
  \\n  


#### INCLUSIONS:   

>> Copy Of Brief (Itemised contents to be attached) [ ]  Local Court Listing Advice [ ]
Copy of Court Attendance Notice/s [ ]  Disclosure Certificate (DPP matters only)  [ ]
A Statement of Facts [ ]  Witness List [ ]
Interview DVD and/or Transcript [ ] Bail Documents [ ]
P424 Notice to defendants rights re:statements [ ]  Unavailable dates for witnesses [ ]
Criminal History/ Traffic History Reports [ ]
>>> _To be verified by Brief Manager_

>>||page 2\n|-|-:|

## _NSW Police Force_ CONTENTS OF BREIF OF EVIDENCE  

>> __Defendant:__  Jonathon KRESNER  
   __Offence/s:__  Use carriage service to threaten serious harm   

Number |  Item                                               | Verified by B.M  
------ |:--------------------------------------------------- | ---------------:
1      | Witness List and Summary of Evidence  
2      | Local Court Listing Advice  
3      | Unavailable Dates   
4      | Court Attendance Notice   
5      | Facts Sheet   
6      | Police Statement — Constable GACIC  
7      | Victim Statement — John O'NEILL   
8      | Document — Copy of Email's  
9      | Document — iAsk enquiry — email verification  
10     | Notebook Interview - Jonathon KRESNER   
11     | Criminal Record — Jonathon KRESNER  

  \\n

>>||page 2\n|-|-:|


## _NSW Police Force_ WITNESS LIST AND SUMMARY OF EVIDENCE  

>> __Accused:__  JONATHON SAMUEL KRESNER    
   __Offences:__  Use carriage service to threaten serious harm   

### Witnesses   
No. |  Name                         | Summary of Evidence 
--- |:----------------------------- |:-----------------------------------------
1   | JOHN THOMAS ONEILL            | Victim statement — provided copy of email   


<!-- Signed:   
Name (Print):   
Rank:   PROCON  
Station:  EASTERN SUBURBS PAC LOCAL AREA COMMAND  
Date:   13 June 2018  
Accused (or Legal Representative) Acknowledgement   
Signed:   
Name (Print):   
Date -->   

>>||page 3\n|-|-:|

<!-- PRACTICE NOTE 1 of 2007   
LOCAL COURT LISTING ADVICE  
(IMPORTANT — Where the defendant is represented by a barrister or solicitor a completed  and signed copy of this document  
must be given to the Court and the prosecutor on the return date)   
POLICE v KRESNER  
Charge No. 1-167089036  
use carriage service to threaten serious harm   
'NUMBERi••••?   
WAVERLEY LOCAL COURT  
11/07/2018  
CONFIRMED   WITHDRAWN   
WITNEss•z   IF WITNESS NOT REQUIRED   
FOR CROSS EXAMINATION ts  
THE TENDER OF THE   
STATEMENT CONSENTED TO  
1. Constable Paul GACIC   YES   NO  YES   NO  
2. Victim -John O'NEILL   YES   NO  YES   NO  
3.  YES   NO  YES   NO  
4.  YES   NO  YES   
5.  YES   NO  YES   NO  
6.  YES   NO  YES   NO  
7.  YES   NO  YES   NO  
8.  YES   NO  YES   NO  
9.  YES   NO  YES   NO  
10.   YES   NO  YES   NO  
11.   YES   NO  YES   NO  
12.   YES   NO  YES   NO  
13.   YES   NO  YES   NO  
YES   NO  YES   NO  
15.   YES   NO  YES   NO  
±ilMÅTÉb  HOURS   
_ e:fi  
YES   NO  
YES   NO  
YES   NO  
DEFENÖÅÜt'.S söLltOliORt'i cÖgNsÉi-.  
Is-iGNÄTÜk€:ÄNDINAME.-aE  
•NUMéER   -->


<!--CAS834M1  New South Wales police  Date: 13/06/2018  
H 67089036  
Unavailable dates for PROCON PAUL MATTHEW CACIC ( 52241 )   
August 2018   
June 2018   July 2018   
SU MO TU WE TH FR   
SU MO TU WE FR  Sü MO   WE  
2   
8   9   10  11  12  13  14  
20  21  12  13 14 15  16 17 18  
10  11 12 13 14 15  16  15  16  17  18  19  
23 24 25  
26  27  28  19  20 21 22  
17  18 19 20 21 22  23  22  23  24  25  
26  27 28 29  30 31   
24  25 26 27 28 29  30  29  30  31  
November  2018  
September 2018  October 2018  
MO TU WE  
MO Fl'tJ WE FR  SA MO   WE  SA  
30  1   
7   8   9   10  11  12  13  
15 16 17  
18  19  20  11  12 13 14  
9   10 11 12  13 14   15  14  15  16  17  
26  27  18  19 20 21 22 23 24   
16  17 18 19  20 21   22  21  22  23  24  25  
25 26 27 28 29 30   
23  24 25 26  27 28   29  28  29  30  31  
February 2019   
December  2018  January 2019  
SU MO TU WE FR SA   
MO TU WE  SU MO   TU WE   
30  31  1   
6   7   8   6   7   8   9   10  11  12  
14 15 16  
17  18  19  10  11 12 13  
9   10 11   12  14  15  14  15  16  
26  17  18 19 20  21 22 23  
16  17 1B   19  20  21  22  20  21  22  23  24  25  
25 26 27  28  
23  24 25   26 27   28  29  27  28  29  30  31  24  
May 2019  
March   2019  April   2019  
MO TU WE  TH FR SA  
MO  gu MO TU WE   
31  1   2   
7   8   9   10  11  12  13  
12 13   14 15   16  17 18   
10  11  12  13  14  15  16  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  
24 25   
25  26  27  19 20   21 22   23  
17  18  19  20  21 22   23  21  22  23  24  
26 27   28 29   30  31  
24  25  26  27  28 29   30  28  29  30  
— 'Training O   Other   
1,  = Leave C — Court   T   
-->

>>||page 5\n|-|-:|

[#1]

>>||page 8\n|-|-:|

### _NSW POLICE FORCE_ STATEMENT OF POLICE   

P190B

|                     |                        |                              |
:---------------------|:-----------------------|:-----------------------------|
__In the matter of:__ | Police V KRESNER       |
__Place:__            | Eastern Suburbs PAC    |
__Date:__             | 13 June 2018           |
                      |                        |
__Name:__             | Paul GACIC             | Tel. No:  9369-9899   
__Rank:__             | Constable              |
__Station/Unit:__     | Eastern Suburbs PAC    |

#### STATES:   
1.  This statement made by me accurately sets out the evidence that I would be prepared, if necessary, to give in court as a witness. The statement is true to the best of my knowledge and belief and I make it knowing that, 'if it is tendered in evidence, I will be liable to prosecution if have wilfully stated in it anything that I know to be false, or do not believe to be true.  
2.  I am 22 years of age.   
3.  On Friday 16th March 2018, I was rostered on duty from 6:00am to 6:00pm, and was working at Waverley Police Station reception.  
4.  At about 10:00am, the victim, John O'NEILL attended Waverley Police Station to report the matter in question. At about 10:09am, I obtained a statement from the victim.   
    **EXHIBIT: I PRODUCE THE STATEMENT FROM JOHN O'NEILL**
5.  After speaking with the victim, he provided rne a copy of the email where the accused made threats of harm.  
    **EXHIBIT: I NOW PRODUCE A COPY OF THE EMAIL**
6. On Sunday 25th March 2018* I was rostered on duty at Bondi Police Station reception from 6:00am to 6:00pm.   
7. At about 9:45am, conducted enquiries in order to ascertain the user and owner of ikresner@gmail.com. These enquiries returned with Google subscriber information. IASK information states that the accused is the owner of ikresner@qmail.com.   
   **EXHIBIT: POLICE PRODUCE COPY OF [ASK ENQUIRY _ 8433915**
8. At about 10:00am, phoned the accused and invited him to participate in an interview to provide his version of events. When the accused arrived, after a short conversation, the accused was cautioned and participated in a notebook interview.   
   **EXHIBIT: I PRODUCE A COPY OF NOTEBOOK INTERVIEW WITH ACCUSED FROM NOTEBOOK F642837 PAGES 1-6**

   I said: My name is Constabte GACIC from Eastern Suburbs Police and I have been investigating a matter in which an email had been sent from ikresner@gmail.com to admin@oneillstrata.com. I am going to ask you some questions in relation to an email sent from ikresner@qmail.com. You do not have to say or do anything if you do not want to. Do you understand that?  

   **He said:** Yes.   
   **I said:** I wili record what you say or do. I can use this recording in court. Do you understand that?   
   **He said:** Yes.   
   **I said:** Do you have an email address?   
   **He said:** I gave it to you already.  
   **I said: Is it ikresner@gmail.com ?  
   **He said: Correct.**   
   **I said:** Do you know John Thomas O'NEILL?  
   **He said:** I have argued with him hundreds of times.  
   **I said:** How do you know him?  
   **He said:** He is the strata manager, so if I need something to repair I am meant to speak with him.  
   **I said:** Have you sent John an email recently?   
   **He said:** This one is the most recent.   
   **I said:** The email that you sent was it intended for John?   
   **He said:** Yes.   
   **I said;** The email that read, "I'm coming for you the second I'm feeling healthy enough to pull the trigger", can you tell me more about it?  
   **He said:** Yes.   
   **I said:** What can you tell me?   
   **He said:** I am planning on suing them to fix the remaining items in my apartment as well as loses suffered, by their breach of duty to not repair my apartment. I am very, very upset at the inconvenience of not having access to my apartment and not having e living space conducive to helping me manage my eczma and asthma. Specifically I have sent many emails about how upset I have been.  
   **I said:** Whet was your intention?  
   **He said:** It was meant to be a reminder that i am suing them.  
   **I said:** Are you willing to sign my notebook as a correct record of our conversation?  
   **He said:** Yes.   

9.  At the conclusion of the interview, Constable RIDER asked further questions in regards to the fairness of the interview. This is contained in pages 5-6 in police notebook F642837.   
10. Following the interview, the accused was charged with use carrier service to threaten serious harm, H67089036.  
11. On Thursday 29th March 2018, police attended the address of the accused to serve the court attendance notice. The court attendance notice was explained and issued to the accused.   
  
  \\n

| Witness: |                             | Signature: |                       |
|---------:|:----------------------------|-----------:|:----------------------|
|          | Peter WOODWARD              |            | Paul GACIC  
|          | Constable                   |            | Constable  
|          | Eastern Suburbs PAC         |            | Eastern Suburbs PAC   
|          | 13 June 2018                |            | 13 June 2018  


>>||page 12\n|-|-:|


### _NSW POLICE FORCE_ STATEMENT OF A WITNESS 

__In the matter of:__  Police V KRESNER  
__Place:__  Eastern Suburbs PAC   
__Date:__   16 March 2018   
__Name:__   John Thomas O'NEILL   

#### STATES:   
1. This statement made by me accurately sets out the evidence that would be prepared, if necessary, to give in court as a witness. The statement is true to the best of my knowledge and belief and I make it knowing that, if it is tendered in evidence, I will be liable to prosecution if I have wilfully stated in it anything that know to be false, or do not believe to be true,  
2. I am 68 years of age.   
3. I have been working as a strata manager for twenty two years. I have probably been in contact with Jonathon Kresner for about three years, because he became the owner of unit 36 of 37 Paul Street, Bondi Junction and I am the strata manager for the building.   
4. Over the past few years Mr Kresner has stated that he has had issues with his unit, in regards to leaking pipes, cockroaches and insects. He believes that I'm not doing anything about it and I guess that's why he's upset or angry. On the 20th December 2017 1 received an email from Jonathon about cockroaches in his apartment. He stated that the cockroaches were laying eggs and were up and down the brickwork. On the 15th March I saw this email, and the email was referred to the strata management committee to find out what needs to be done.  
5. I then received an email on the 15th March 2018 at about 6:30pm, and the email indicated that there were cockroach eggs in the apartment. He then called me incompetent and fumbling in maintaining the property. The most disturbing point was his statement where he said he's coming for me the second he's feeling healthy enough t ull the trigger. felt as though that this was quite confrontational and frightening, because access to the office is quite open and we have a lot of staff, I really don't want them in danger. In this instance I do believe that I have fears for the safety of myself and my staff. Because he has said he will pull the trigger, I certainly feel physically threatened, and this is a worry.  
6. I did not give Jonathon permission to intimidate and harass me the way he did.   

  \\n

| Witness: |                             |  Signature |                       |
|---------:|:----------------------------|-----------:|:----------------------|
|          | Paul GACIC                  |            | John Thomas O'NEILL
|          | Eastern Suburbs Police Area |            | 16 March 2018              
|          | Command Constable           |            |                
|          | Eastern Suburbs PAC         |            |   
|          | 16 March 2018               |            |   

>>||page 14\n|-|-:|

\`\`\`
From:     Jonathon Kresner <jkresner@gmail.com>   
Sent:     Thursday, 15 March 2018 6:29 PM   
To:       Elizabeth Bateman   
Subject:  Re: Ants  

Pathology of the Infectious Diseases department at St Vincents 
has confirmed these to be sacks of Cocoroach eggs. They are know 
to cause Asthma and Eczma and various other ailments. 

You may choose to ignore me again, but it will be shown in court, you 
have been warned these things have burrowed through boundary walls.  

This isn't a game. Your fucking incompetents leaving the rooftop 
membrane leaking for multiple years and consistently fumbling 
strict maintenance duty is fucking up people's health.  

I'm coming for you the second I'm feeling healthy enough to 
pull the trigger.   

> On Thu, 15 Mar 2018 at 12:56 pm, Elizabeth Bateman wrote:   
>
> Dear Mr Kresner,  
> The e-mail received at 7:35pm on 20th December 2017 has been 
> retrieved and referred to the strata committee for comment and
> instruction. They have onsent your pictures to a pest company 
> for advice.   
>
> In the interim the sort of language demonstrated in your e-mail 
> below just demeans you and demonstrates your true character.   

> Yours faithfully,   
> John O'Neill  
> O'NEILL STRATA MANAGEMENT   
\`\`\`   

>>||page 15\n|-|-:|

jkresner.Accountlnfo.txt   
\`\`\`
######### \* Google Confidential and Proprietary \* ############  
GOOGLE SUBSCRIBER INFORMATION   
Name: Jonathon Kresner  
e-mail :  jkresner@gmail com  
Status: Enabled  
Services: Android, chrome Web store, Developer Consoles, Gmail Google AdSense, Google Adwords, Google Alerts, Google Analyti cs, Google calendar, Google Chrome Sync, Google CIOUd Print, Google Code, *Google Docs, Google Drive, Google Groups, Google Hangouts, Google Help, Google Keep, Google Maps, Google Maps Engine, Google My Business, Google My Maps, Google payments, Google Photos, Google play console, Google Play Music, Google Reader, Google search Console, Google Services, Takeout, Google URL shortener, Google Voi ce, Google Wave, Google WiFi , Googl e+, Has Google profile, Has Madi son Account, Has plusone, Location History, Tasks In Ti ngle, Web & App Activity, Website optimizer, YouTube, iGoog1e  
Recovery e-Ma11: jkresner@yahoo.com.au  
Created on: 2005/11/09-01: 36: 48-u-rc  
Terms of Service IP: 60.242.21.225, on  
SMS: +61412327121 [AU]
Nickname: Krez
Google Account ID: 415293483689

No user IP logs data.   
######### \* Google Confidential and Proprietary \* ############
\`\`\`

>>||page 17\n|-|-:|


\`\`\`
I am going to ask you some questions in 
relation to 
*an email sent from jkresner@gmail.com*
You do not have to say or do anything if 
you do not want to. Do you understand that?
*yes*
I/ We will record what you say or do.
We can use this recording in court. Do you 
understand that? *Yes*


Q1 *Do you have an email address?*
A1 *I gave it to you already.*
Q2 Is it jkresner@gmail.com
A2 Correct
Q3 Do you know John Thomas 
   O'Neill?
A3 I have argued with 
   him hundreds of times.
Q4 How do you know him?
A4 He is the Strata manager 
   so if I need something 
   to repair I am meant
   to speak with him
Q5 Have you sent John 
   an email recently?   
A5 This one is the most 
   recent.
Q6 The email that you 
   sent was it intended 
   for John?
A6 Yes
Q7 The email that read 
   "I'm coming for you the
   second I'm feeling healthy
   enough to pull the trigger"
   Can you tell me more 
   about it?
A7 Yes I am planning on suing 
   them to fix the remaining 
   items in my apartment
\`\`\`