# [Fair Trading Act 1987 No 68]


Part 3 The Australian Consumer Law
===============================================================================
Division 1 Definitions
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 26   Definitions
(1) In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears:
    application law means:
(a) a law of a participating jurisdiction that applies the Australian Consumer Law, either with or without modifications, as a law of the participating jurisdiction, or
(b) any regulations or other legislative instrument made under a law described in paragraph (a), or
(c) the Australian Consumer Law, applying as a law of the participating jurisdiction, either with or without modifications.
    Australian Consumer Law means (according to the context):
(a) the Australian Consumer Law text, or
(b) the Australian Consumer Law text, applying as a law of a participating jurisdiction, either with or without modifications.
    Australian Consumer Law text means the text described in section 27.
    instrument means any document whatever, including the following:
(a) an Act or an instrument made under an Act,
(b) a law of this jurisdiction or an instrument made under such a law,
(c) an award or other industrial determination or order, or an industrial agreement,
(d) any other order (whether executive, judicial or otherwise),
(e) a notice, certificate or licence,
(f) an agreement,
(g) an application made, information or complaint laid, affidavit sworn, or warrant issued, for any purpose,
(h) an indictment, presentment, summons or writ,
(i) any other pleading in, or process issued in connection with, a legal or other proceeding.
    Intergovernmental Agreement means the Intergovernmental Agreement for the Australian Consumer Law made on 2 July 2009 between the Commonwealth, the State of New South Wales, the State of Victoria, the State of Queensland, the State of Western Australia, the State of South Australia, the State of Tasmania, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory of Australia, as in force for the time being.
    jurisdiction means a State or the Commonwealth.
    law, in relation to a Territory, means a law of, or in force in, that Territory.
    modifications includes additions, omissions and substitutions.
    month means a period commencing at the beginning of a day of one of the 12 months of the year and ending immediately before the beginning of the corresponding day of the next month or, if there is no such corresponding day, ending at the expiration of the next month.
    participating jurisdiction means a jurisdiction that is a party to the Intergovernmental Agreement and applies the Australian Consumer Law as a law of the jurisdiction, either with or without modifications.
    proclamation means a proclamation of the Governor published on the NSW legislation website.
    State includes a Territory.
    Territory means the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory of Australia.
    this jurisdiction means New South Wales.
(2) Terms used in this Part and also in the Australian Consumer Law (NSW) have the same meanings in this Part as they have in that Law.
(3) For the purposes of this Part:
(a) a jurisdiction is taken to have applied the Australian Consumer Law as a law of the jurisdiction if a law of the jurisdiction substantially corresponds to the provisions of the Australian Consumer Law text, as in force from time to time, and
(b) that corresponding law is taken to be the Australian Consumer Law, or the Australian Consumer Law text, applying as a law of that jurisdiction.


Division 2 Application of Australian Consumer Law
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 27   The Australian Consumer Law text
The Australian Consumer Law text consists of:
(a) Schedule 2 to the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 of the Commonwealth, and
(b) the regulations under section 139G of that Act.


#### 28   Application of Australian Consumer Law
(1) The Australian Consumer Law text, as in force from time to time:
(a) applies as a law of this jurisdiction, and
(b) as so applying may be referred to as the Australian Consumer Law (NSW), and
(c) as so applying is a part of this Act.
(2) This section has effect subject to sections 29, 30 and 31.


#### 29   Future modifications of Australian Consumer Law text
(1) A modification made by a Commonwealth law to the Australian Consumer Law text after the commencement of this section does not apply under section 28 if the modification is declared by a proclamation to be excluded from the operation of that section.
(2) A proclamation under subsection (1) has effect only if published or notified no later than 2 months after the date of the modification.
(3) Subsection (1) ceases to apply to the modification if a further proclamation so provides.
(4) For the purposes of this section, the date of the modification is the date on which the Commonwealth Act effecting the modification receives the Royal Assent or the regulation effecting the modification is registered under the Legislative Instruments Act 2003 of the Commonwealth.


#### 30   Meaning of generic terms in Australian Consumer Law for purposes of this jurisdiction
(1) In the Australian Consumer Law (NSW):
    regulator means the Secretary.
(2) For the purposes of the application of the Australian Consumer Law (NSW), court means, unless otherwise expressly provided by this Act:
(a) the Local Court, or
(b) the District Court, or
(c) the Supreme Court.
(3) In the following provisions of the Australian Consumer Law (NSW), court means the Supreme Court:
(a) section 218,
(b) Division 2 of Part 5-2,
(c) Division 4 of Part 5-2,
(d) sections 246, 247, 248 and 250.
(4) In Part 2-3 of the Australian Consumer Law (NSW), court includes the Tribunal.
(5) Subsections (2)–(4) are subject to any jurisdictional limits on the court concerned or the Tribunal imposed by any other Act.


#### 31   Interpretation of Australian Consumer Law
(1) The Acts Interpretation Act 1901 of the Commonwealth applies as a law of this jurisdiction to the Australian Consumer Law (NSW).
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Commonwealth Act mentioned in that subsection applies as if:
(a) the statutory provisions in the Australian Consumer Law (NSW) were a Commonwealth Act, and
(b) the regulations in the Australian Consumer Law (NSW) or instruments under that Law were regulations or instruments under a Commonwealth Act.
(3) The Interpretation Act 1987 of New South Wales does not apply to:
(a) the Australian Consumer Law (NSW), or
(b) any instrument under that Law.


#### 32   Application of Australian Consumer Law
(1) The Australian Consumer Law (NSW) applies to and in relation to:
(a) persons carrying on business within this jurisdiction, or
(b) bodies corporate incorporated or registered under the law of this jurisdiction, or
(c) persons ordinarily resident in this jurisdiction, or
(d) persons otherwise connected with this jurisdiction.
(2) Subject to subsection (1), the Australian Consumer Law (NSW) extends to conduct, and other acts, matters and things, occurring or existing outside or partly outside this jurisdiction (whether within or outside Australia).


Division 3 References to Australian Consumer Law
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 33   References to Australian Consumer Law
(1) A reference in any instrument to the Australian Consumer Law is a reference to the Australian Consumer Law of any or all of the participating jurisdictions.
(2) Subsection (1) has effect except so far as the contrary intention appears in the instrument or the context of the reference otherwise requires.


### 34   References to Australian Consumer Law of other jurisdictions
(1) This section has effect for the purposes of an Act, a law of this jurisdiction or an instrument under an Act or such a law.
(2) If a law of a participating jurisdiction other than this jurisdiction provides that the Australian Consumer Law text as in force for the time being applies as a law of that jurisdiction, the Australian Consumer Law of that jurisdiction is the Australian Consumer Law text, applying as a law of that jurisdiction.


Division 4 Application of Australian Consumer Law to Crown
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 35   Division does not apply to Commonwealth
In this Division, participating jurisdiction or other jurisdiction does not include the Commonwealth.


#### 36   Application law of this jurisdiction
The application law of this jurisdiction binds (so far as the legislative power of Parliament permits) the Crown in right of this jurisdiction and of each other jurisdiction, so far as the Crown carries on a business, either directly or by an authority of the jurisdiction concerned.


#### 37   Application law of other jurisdictions
(1) The application law of each participating jurisdiction other than this jurisdiction binds the Crown in right of this jurisdiction, so far as the Crown carries on a business, either directly or by an authority of this jurisdiction.
(2) If, because of this Part, a provision of the law of another participating jurisdiction binds the Crown in right of this jurisdiction, the Crown in that right is subject to that provision despite any prerogative right or privilege.


#### 38   Activities that are not business
(1) For the purposes of sections 36 and 37, the following do not amount to carrying on a business:
(a) imposing or collecting:
  (i) taxes, or
  (ii) levies, or
  (iii) fees for authorisations,
(b) granting, refusing to grant, revoking, suspending or varying authorisations (whether or not they are subject to conditions),
(c) a transaction involving:
  (i) only persons who are all acting for the Crown in the same right (and none of whom is an authority of a State), or
  (ii) only persons who are all acting for the same authority of a State, or
  (iii) only the Crown in right of a State and one or more non-commercial authorities of that State, or
  (iv) only non-commercial authorities of the same State,
(d) the acquisition of primary products by a government body under legislation, unless the acquisition occurs because:
  (i) the body chooses to acquire the products, or
  (ii) the body has not exercised a discretion that it has under the legislation that would allow it not to acquire the products.
(2) Subsection (1) does not limit the things that do not amount to carrying on a business for the purposes of sections 36 and 37.
(3) In this section:
  __acquisition__ of primary products by a government body under legislation includes vesting of ownership of primary products in a government body by legislation.
  __authorisation__ means a licence, permit, certificate or other authorisation that allows the holder of the authorisation to supply goods or services.
  __government body__ means a State or an authority of a State.
  primary products means:
(a) agricultural or horticultural produce, or
(b) crops, whether on or attached to the land or not, or
(c) animals (whether dead or alive), or
(d) the bodily produce (including natural increase) of animals.
(4) For the purposes of this section, an authority of a State is non-commercial if:
(a) it is constituted by only one person, and
(b) it is neither a trading corporation nor a financial corporation.


#### 39   Crown not liable to pecuniary penalty or prosecution
(1) Nothing in the application law of this jurisdiction makes the Crown in any capacity liable to a pecuniary penalty or to be prosecuted for an offence.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), nothing in the application law of a participating jurisdiction makes the Crown in right of this jurisdiction liable to a pecuniary penalty or to be prosecuted for an offence.
(3) The protection in subsection (1) or (2) does not apply to an authority of any jurisdiction.


Division 5 Miscellaneous
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 40   Conferral of functions and powers on certain bodies
(1) The authorities and officers of the Commonwealth referred to in the Australian Consumer Law (NSW) have the functions and powers conferred or expressed to be conferred on them under the Australian Consumer Law (NSW).
(2) In addition to the powers mentioned in subsection (1), the authorities and officers referred to in that subsection have power to do all things necessary or convenient to be done in connection with the performance of the functions and exercise of the powers referred to in that subsection.

#### 41   No doubling-up of liabilities
(1) If:
(a) an act or omission is an offence against the Australian Consumer Law (NSW) and is also an offence against an application law of another participating jurisdiction, and
(b) the offender has been punished for the offence under the application law of the other jurisdiction,
    the offender is not liable to be punished for the offence against the Australian Consumer Law (NSW).
(2) If a person has been ordered to pay a pecuniary penalty under the application law of another participating jurisdiction, the person is not liable to a pecuniary penalty under the Australian Consumer Law (NSW) in respect of the same conduct.


Part 4 NSW consumer safety and information requirements
===============================================================================

**Note.** The provisions of this Part supplement the provisions of Part 3-3 of the ACL. Part 3-3 of the ACL deals with the safety of consumer goods and product related services and includes provisions relating to safety standards, bans on the supply of certain consumer goods and product related services for safety reasons, recall of consumer goods, safety warning notices and reporting by suppliers of death, serious injury or illness associated with consumer goods or product related services.


Division 1 42–44  (Repealed)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Division 2 Product recall etc
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### 45   Requirement to notify recall of goods to persons outside New South Wales
If any goods are recalled in accordance with a recall notice, a person who has supplied any of the goods to another person outside New South Wales must, as soon as practicable after the supply of those goods, give a notice in writing to that other person:
(a) stating that the goods are subject to recall, and
(b) if the goods contain a defect or have a dangerous characteristic—stating the nature of the defect or dangerous characteristic, and
(c) if the goods do not comply with a product safety standard for the goods—stating the nature of the non-compliance.

    Maximum penalty: 100 penalty units in the case of a corporation or 20 penalty units in any other case.

#### 46   Certain amounts recoverable as debt or damages
(1) If a supplier fails to carry out an undertaking given under section 123 (1) (c) of the ACL to refund the price of goods, the amount that should have been refunded is recoverable as a debt due by the supplier to the person to whom the undertaking was given.
(2) If a supplier fails to carry out an undertaking given under section 123 (1) (c) of the ACL to repair or replace goods, the supplier is taken to have given instead an undertaking, notified under section 123 (1) (c) of the ACL, to refund the price of the goods within the period specified for the repair or replacement of the goods.
(3) If:
(a) a person:
  (i) fails to comply with a requirement of a recall notice, or
  (ii) supplies goods in contravention of a recall notice identifying a defect in, or dangerous characteristic of, the goods, and
(b) another person suffers loss or damage:
  (i) because of a defect in, or dangerous characteristic of, the goods, or
  (ii) by not having particular information as to a characteristic of the goods
      , the person who suffered the loss or damage is, for the purposes of this Act, taken to have suffered the loss or damage because of the failure or contravention.


### 47   Certain action not to affect insurance contracts(TPA s 65T)
The liability of an insurer under a contract of insurance with a person, being a contract relating to the recall of goods supplied or proposed to be supplied by the person or to the liability of the person with respect to possible defects in goods supplied or proposed to be supplied by the person, shall not be affected only because the person gives to the Minister or to an employee information relating to any goods supplied or proposed to be supplied by the person.


- - - 

Division 3 Employment placement services
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Division 4 Industry code for motor vehicle insurers and repairers
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Division 5 Funeral goods and services
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Division 6 Publication of service station fuel prices
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Part 4A Regulation of event ticket transactions
===============================================================================

- - -

Part 6 Enforcement and remedies
===============================================================================
Division 1 Interpretation and application
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 61   Interpretation
(1) In this Part:
     local contravention means a contravention of Part 4, Part 4A, Part 4B or section 87 (1).
(2) A reference in this Part to a person involved in a contravention of a provision of this Act is a reference to a person who:
(a) has aided, abetted, counselled or procured the contravention, or
(b) has induced, whether by threats or promises or otherwise, the contravention, or
(c) has been in any way, directly or indirectly, knowingly concerned in, or party to, the contravention, or
(d) has conspired with others to effect the contravention.
(3) A reference in this Part to a contravention of Part 2-3 of the ACL (or a provision of that Part) is a reference to applying or relying on, or purporting to apply or rely on, a term of a consumer contract that the Supreme Court has declared under section 250 of the ACL to be an unfair term.


Division 2 Enforcement provisions applying to ACL offences and local offences
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 62   Enforcement provisions of ACL that extend to local offences
(1) The following provisions of the ACL apply to an offence against a provision of Part 4 or section 87 (1) of this Act in the same way as they apply to a contravention of, or an offence against, a provision of Chapter 4 of the ACL:
(a) section 207 (Reasonable mistake of fact),
(b) section 208 (Act or default of another person etc.),
(c) section 209 (Publication of advertisements in the ordinary course of business),
(d) section 216 (Granting of injunctions etc.).
(2) The following provisions of the ACL apply to an offence against section 20 (3), 22, 23, Part 4 or section 87 (1) of this Act in the same way as they apply to a contravention of, or an offence against, a provision of Chapter 4 of the ACL:
(a) section 212 (Prosecutions to be commenced within 3 years),
(b) section 214 (Penalties for contraventions of the same nature etc.),
(c) section 215 (Penalties for previous contraventions of the same nature etc.).


#### 63   Offences against this Act
(1) A person is guilty of an offence against this Act if the person:
(a) contravenes a provision of this Act, or
(b) attempts to contravene a provision of this Act, or
(c) aids, abets, counsels or procures another person to contravene a provision of this Act, or
(d) induces, or attempts to induce, another person, whether by threats or promises or otherwise, to contravene a provision of this Act, or
(e) is in any way, directly or indirectly, knowingly concerned in, or party to, the contravention by another person of a provision of this Act, or
(f) conspires with others to contravene a provision of this Act.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a contravention of section 54 of this Act or Chapter 2 or 3 of the ACL.


#### 64   Penalties for contraventions
(1) A person who is convicted of a second or subsequent offence against Division 1, 2 or 5 of Part 4-1 of the ACL is, in addition to, or as an alternative to, any monetary penalty that may be imposed in relation to the offence, liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years.
(2) However, the maximum term of imprisonment that the Local Court may impose for any such second or subsequent offence is 2 years.


#### 65   Compensation orders by Local Court on conviction of person
(1) If a person is convicted by the Local Court of an offence against this Act or the regulations and the Court is satisfied that another person has sustained loss or damage as a result of the conduct of the convicted person, the Court may, in addition to any penalty it may impose in respect of the offence, order the convicted person to compensate the other person for the loss or damage.
(2) The compensation that the Local Court may order to be paid under this section is not to exceed the jurisdictional limit of the Local Court when sitting in its General Division within the meaning of the Local Court Act 2007.
(3) In this section:
(a) a reference to the conviction of a person includes a reference to the making of an order in respect of a person under section 10 of the Crimes (Sentencing Procedure) Act 1999, and
(b) a reference to loss or damage does not, if the loss or damage arises from a contravention of Part 2-1, 3-1 or 4-1 of the ACL, include a reference to:
  (i) the death of a person, or
  (ii) personal injury to a person (including any pre-natal injury, any impairment of the person’s physical or mental condition and any disease).


#### 66   Other orders that may be made by court on conviction
(1) If a person is, by any conviction or order of the Local Court, required to pay a fine, penalty, sum of money or costs in respect of an offence against this Act, the Court may, on the application of the Minister or the Secretary, order that the amount unpaid be recoverable as a judgment debt due to the Crown.
(2) If an order is made under subsection (1):
(a) the order has effect according to its tenor, and
(b) the conviction or order ceases to be enforceable by imprisonment.
(3) If a person is convicted of an offence against this Act or any other legislation administered by the Minister, the convicting court may order the offender to reimburse the Department for the costs and expenses reasonably incurred during the investigation of the offence in such amount as is fixed by the order.
(4) In this section:
    costs and expenses, in relation to the investigation of an offence, means the following costs and expenses incurred during the investigation of the offence:
(a) the costs and expenses of purchasing or testing any goods to which the conviction relates,
(b) the costs and expenses in conducting any inspection, test, measurement or analysis,
(c) the costs and expenses of transporting, storing or disposing of evidence,
(d) the costs and expenses of any auditor or accountant conducting an examination of financial records in connection with the investigation of the offence,
  and includes any other costs and expenses prescribed by the regulations.


#### 67   Penalty notices
(1) An authorised officer may issue a penalty notice to a person if it appears to the officer that the person has committed a penalty notice offence.
(2) A penalty notice offence is an offence against this Act or the regulations that is prescribed by the regulations as a penalty notice offence.
(3) The Fines Act 1996 applies to a penalty notice issued under this section.
    
    > *Note* [The Fines Act 1996] provides that, if a person issued with a penalty notice does not wish to have the matter determined by a court, the person may pay the amount specified in the notice and is not liable to any further proceedings for the alleged offence.
(4) The amount payable under a penalty notice issued under this section is the amount prescribed for the alleged offence by the regulations (not exceeding the maximum amount of penalty that could be imposed for the offence by a court).
(5) This section does not limit the operation of any other provision of, or made under, this or any other Act relating to proceedings that may be taken in respect of offences.
(6) For the avoidance of doubt, a reference to any further proceedings for the alleged offence in section 22A (1) of the Fines Act 1996 (being an offence against this Act or the regulations) includes a reference to any further proceedings under section 224 of the ACL for a contravention of a provision of the ACL that has the same elements as the elements for the alleged offence.
(7) In this section, authorised officer means:
(a) the Secretary, or
(b) an investigator, or
(c) a person who is appointed in writing by the Secretary as an authorised officer for the purposes of this section.


#### 68   Proceedings for offences
(1) Proceedings for an offence against this Act may be taken and prosecuted only by the Secretary or, in the name of the Secretary, by a person acting with the authority of the Secretary.
(2) Proceedings for an offence under this Act or the regulations may be dealt with:
(a) summarily before the Local Court, or
(b) summarily before the Supreme Court in its summary jurisdiction.
(3) If proceedings are brought in the Local Court, the maximum monetary penalty that the Local Court may impose for the offence is 100 penalty units, despite any higher maximum monetary penalty provided in respect of the offence.
(4) In proceedings for an offence against this Act, an authority to prosecute purporting to have been signed by the Secretary is evidence of that authority without proof of the signature of the Secretary.


Division 3 Enforcement provisions applying to local offences only
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 69   Penalties for offences against this Act
A person guilty of an offence against this Act (except the ACL) for which a penalty is not otherwise provided is liable:
(a) in the case of a person other than a body corporate—to a penalty not exceeding 200 penalty units, or
(b) in the case of a body corporate—to a penalty not exceeding 1,000 penalty units.


Division 4 Remedies applying to ACL matters and local matters
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 70   Remedy provisions of ACL that extend to local matters
(1) Section 218 (Regulator may accept undertakings) of the ACL applies to a matter in relation to which the Minister or the Secretary has a function under this Act in the same way as it applies to a matter in relation to which the regulator has a power or function under the ACL.
(2) The following provisions of the ACL apply to a local contravention in the same way as they apply to a contravention of the ACL specified in those provisions:
(a) Division 2 (Injunctions) of Part 5-2,
(b) Division 3 (Damages) of Part 5-2,
(c) Subdivision A (Compensation orders etc. for injured persons) of Division 4 of Part 5-2,
(d) section 246 (other than subsection (2) (a) and (b)) (Non-punitive orders),
(e) section 247 (Adverse publicity orders),
(f) section 251 (Publication of advertisement in the ordinary course of business).


#### 71   Declarations by Supreme Court concerning unfair contract terms
(1) An application for a declaration under section 250 of the ACL may be made only by the Secretary or, with the leave of the Supreme Court, by a party to a consumer contract that is a standard form contract.
    Note.
     Section 86 enables the Minister to intervene in proceedings brought before the Supreme Court under this Act.
(2) A declaration made under section 250 of the ACL that a particular term of a consumer contract that is a standard form contract is unfair binds all parties to consumer contracts of that kind, unless the Supreme Court orders otherwise.
(3) This section does not:
(a) limit any other power of the Supreme Court to make declarations, or
(b) prevent a party to a consumer contract that is a standard form contract from bringing proceedings in a court or tribunal of competent jurisdiction for relief in respect of a term of a consumer contract that is void because it is unfair.
    > *Note.* Section 23 of the ACL provides that an unfair term in a consumer contract that is a standard form contract is void, although the contract continues to bind the parties if it is capable of operating without the unfair term. If a contract claim in relation to a consumer contract containing such an unfair term is brought before a court or tribunal (such as the Civil and Administrative Tribunal) having jurisdiction to deal with the claim, the court or tribunal will be required to treat the term as being void.
(4) In this section, consumer contract, standard form contract and unfair have the same meanings as they have in the ACL.


### 72   Show cause action may be taken by Secretary
(1) In this section, unlawful conduct means any conduct that constitutes a contravention of a provision of this Act other than Part 2-3 of the ACL (or would constitute such a contravention if the conduct occurred in New South Wales), whether or not any proceedings have been brought in respect of the contravention.
(2) If the Secretary is satisfied that a person has, in trade or commerce, engaged in any unlawful conduct on more than one occasion (whether in New South Wales or in any other place), the Secretary may, by notice in writing served on the person, call on the person to show cause why the person should not, for the reason specified in the notice, be prevented from carrying on a business of supplying goods or services.
(3) The notice must specify the period (being at least 14 days after the notice is served) in which the person may show cause.
(4) The person on whom a notice to show cause has been served under this section may, within the period specified in the notice, make a written submission in relation to the matters to which the notice relates.
(5) The Secretary:
(a) is to consider any such submission, and
(b) may conduct such inquiries, or make such investigations, in relation to the matters to which the notice relates as the Secretary thinks appropriate.
(6) This section does not limit the operation of section 79 of this Act or Division 2 of Part 5-2 of the ACL.


#### 73   Trading prohibition orders
(1) The Secretary may, after serving a notice on a person under section 72 and taking into consideration any submissions made in relation to the matter, apply to the Supreme Court for an order under this section in respect of the person if the Secretary is of the opinion that the person is likely to engage again, or to continue to engage, in any unlawful conduct within the meaning of that section.
(2) The Supreme Court may, on application by the Secretary under this section, make an order prohibiting the person who is the subject of the application (the relevant person) from carrying on a business of supplying goods or services (whether or not as part of, or incidental to, the carrying on of another business) for an indefinite period or for a period specified in the order.
(3) In making any such order, the Supreme Court may, if the Court is satisfied that a person has sustained loss or damage as a result of the unlawful conduct of the relevant person, order the relevant person to compensate the other person for the loss or damage.
(4) A reference in subsection (3) to loss or damage does not, if the loss or damage arises from a contravention of Part 2-1, 3-1 or 4-1 of the ACL, include a reference to:
(a) the death of a person, or
(b) personal injury to a person (including any pre-natal injury, any impairment of the person’s physical or mental condition and any disease).
(5) This section does not limit the operation of section 79 of this Act or Division 2 of Part 5-2 of the ACL.


#### 74   Actions for damages and compensation orders
(1) Sections 236 (2) and 237 (3) of the ACL do not apply to a cause of action to which Division 6 of Part 2 of the Limitation Act 1969 applies.
(2) The powers conferred on the Supreme Court under section 237, 238 or 243 of the ACL in relation to a contract or arrangement do not affect any powers that another court may have in relation to the contract or arrangement in proceedings instituted in that other court in respect of the contract or arrangement.
(3) The Tribunal may decide the matter of whether a person has suffered loss or damage because of the conduct of another person that constitutes a local contravention or a contravention of Chapter 2 or 3 of the ACL if that matter arises in connection with another matter the subject of proceedings in the Tribunal. In deciding the matter of loss or damage, the Tribunal may award such sum, and make such ancillary orders, as it thinks fit.
(4) A reference to loss or damage in section 236, 237 or 238 of the ACL and in this section does not, if the loss or damage arises from a contravention of Part 2-1, 3-1 or 4-1 of the ACL, include a reference to:
(a) the death of a person, or
(b) personal injury to a person (including any pre-natal injury, any impairment of the person’s physical or mental condition and any disease).


#### 75   Contributory acts or omissions to reduce compensation in defective goods actions
(1) If the loss or damage to which a defective goods action under section 138 or 139 of the ACL relates was caused by both:
(a) an act or omission of the individual who suffers the injuries referred to in that section or a person for whom that individual is responsible, and
(b) a safety defect of the goods to which the action relates,
    the amount of the loss or damage is to be reduced to such extent (which may be to nil) as the court thinks fit having regard to that individual’s share in the responsibility for the loss or damage.
(2) If the loss or damage to which a defective goods action under section 140 or 141 of the ACL relates was caused by both:
(a) an act or omission of the person who suffered the loss or damage or another person for whom that person is responsible, and
(b) a safety defect of the goods to which the action relates,
    the amount of the loss or damage is to be reduced to such extent (which may be to nil) as the court thinks fit having regard to that person’s share in the responsibility for the loss or damage.


#### 76   Compensation orders etc arising out of unfair contract terms
In determining whether to make an order under section 237 (1) or 238 (1) of the ACL in relation to:
(a) a contravention of a provision of Part 2-2 of the ACL, or
(b) a term of a consumer contract that has been declared under section 250 of the ACL to be an unfair term, 
    the court may have regard to the conduct of the parties to the proceeding referred to in that subsection since the contravention occurred or the declaration was made.


#### 77   Remedy for supply of goods in contravention of certain provisions
(1) This section applies if:
(a) goods are supplied to a person in contravention of section 106 or 118 of the ACL, or
(b) goods are supplied to a person and the supply of the goods is an offence under section 194 or 197 of the ACL (whether or not there has been a conviction for the offence).
(2) The person to whom the goods were supplied may recover from the supplier as a debt any money paid for the goods.
(3) If judgement is given for the plaintiff in an action under subsection (2), the judgement debt may, if the court so directs, be satisfied by repair or modification of the goods in such a manner that:
(a) the contravention relied on by the plaintiff would not have occurred if the goods had been supplied as repaired or modified, or
(b) the repaired or modified goods are accepted by the plaintiff on or before a day specified in the direction.


#### 78   Court may make orders for the purpose of preserving money or other property held by a person
(1) The Supreme Court may, on the application of the Minister or the Secretary, make an order or orders referred to in subsection (3) if:
(a) proceedings of a kind referred to in subsection (2) have been taken against a person, or proceedings of a kind referred to in subsection (2) (e) or (f) may be taken against a person, and
(b) the Court is satisfied that it is necessary or desirable to make the order or orders for the purpose of preserving money or other property held by, or on behalf of, the person if the person is liable, or may become liable, under this Act:
  (i) to pay money by way of a fine, damages, compensation, refund or otherwise, or
  (ii) to transfer, sell or refund other property, and
(c) the Court is satisfied that the making of such an order or orders will not unduly prejudice the rights and interests of any other person.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) (a), the kinds of proceedings taken against the person are:
(a) proceedings against the person for an offence against this Act, or
(b) an application under section 232 of the ACL for an injunction against the person in relation to:
  (i) a local contravention or a contravention of a provision of Chapter 2, 3 or 4 of the ACL, or
  (ii) a term of a consumer contract in relation to which a declaration under section 250 of the ACL has been made, or
(c) an application under section 79 for an injunction against a person in relation to a contravention referred to in that section, or
(d) an action under section 236 (1) of the ACL against the person in relation to a local contravention or a contravention of a provision of Chapter 2 or 3 of the ACL, or
(e) an application for an order under section 237 (1) or 239 (1) of the ACL against the person in relation to:
  (i) a contravention of a provision of Chapter 2, 3 or 4 of the ACL, or
  (ii) a term of a consumer contract in relation to which a declaration under section 250 of the ACL has been made, or
(f) an application for an order under section 237 (1) of the ACL in relation to a local contravention, or
(g) an application for an order under section 73 in relation to the person.
(3) The Supreme Court may make the following orders under subsection (1) in relation to money or other property held by, or on behalf of, a person (the respondent):
(a) an order prohibiting, either absolutely or subject to conditions, a person who is indebted to the respondent, or to an associate of the respondent, from making a payment, in total or partial discharge of the debt:
  (i) to the respondent, or
  (ii) to another person at the direction or request of the respondent,
(b) an order prohibiting, either absolutely or subject to conditions, a person who is holding money or other property on behalf of the respondent, or on behalf of an associate of the respondent:
  (i) from paying all or any of the money to the respondent, or to another person at the direction or request of the respondent, or
  (ii) from transferring the other property to the respondent, or to another person at the direction or request of the respondent, or otherwise parting with possession of that property,
(c) an order prohibiting, either absolutely or subject to conditions, the taking or sending by any person of money of the respondent, or of an associate of the respondent, to a place outside the State or Territory in which the money is held,
(d) an order prohibiting, either absolutely or subject to conditions, the taking, sending or transfer by any person of other property of the respondent, or of an associate of the respondent, to a place outside the State or Territory in which that property is located,
(e) if the respondent is a natural person—an order appointing a receiver or trustee of the property, or of part of the property, of the respondent with such powers as are specified in the order.
(4) If the Supreme Court makes such an order, the order operates:
(a) for the period specified in the order (which must not be longer than 30 days if the application for the order was an ex parte application), or
(b) if proceedings in relation to which the order is made are concluded before the end of that period—until the conclusion of those proceedings.
(5) A person who contravenes an order by the Supreme Court under this section that is applicable to the person is guilty of an offence punishable on conviction:
(a) in the case of a person other than a body corporate—by a fine not exceeding 200 penalty units, or
(b) in the case of a body corporate—by a fine not exceeding 1,000 penalty units.
(6) This section does not affect any other powers of the Supreme Court.
(7) A reference in this section to a person who is an associate of a respondent is a reference to:
(a) a person holding money or other property on behalf of the respondent, or
(b) if the respondent is a body corporate—a wholly owned subsidiary (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth) of the respondent.


Division 5 Remedies applying to local matters only
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 79   Other injunctions
(1) The Supreme Court may grant an injunction in such terms as the Court determines to be appropriate if satisfied that a person has engaged, or is proposing to engage, in conduct that constitutes, or would constitute:
(a) a contravention of:
  (i) section 20 (3), 22 or 23 of this Act, or
  (ii)   (Repealed)
  (iii) a provision of any other legislation administered by the Minister or of an order made under any such legislation, or
(b) attempting to contravene such a provision, or
(c) aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring a person to contravene such a provision, or
(d) inducing, or attempting to induce, whether by threats or promises or otherwise, a person to contravene such a provision, or
(e) being in any way, directly or indirectly, knowingly concerned in, or party to, the contravention by a person of such a provision, or
(f) conspiring with others to contravene such a provision.
(2) The Supreme Court may grant an injunction under this section only on the application of the Secretary made with the consent of the Minister.
(3) An injunction may be granted under this section as an interim injunction without an undertaking being required as to damages or costs or may be granted as a permanent injunction.


#### 79A   Suspension of licences
(1) In this section, licence means any licence, permit or other authority granted or issued (whether before or after the commencement of this section) under any legislation administered by the Minister, and licensee means the holder of the licence, permit or authority.
(2) If the Secretary is of the opinion that there are reasonable grounds to believe that:
(a) a licensee has engaged in conduct that, under legislation administered by the Minister, constitutes grounds for suspension or cancellation of the licence, and
(b) it is likely that the licensee will continue to engage in that conduct, and
(c) there is a danger that a person or persons may suffer significant harm, or significant loss or damage, as a result of that conduct unless action is taken urgently,
    the Secretary may, by notice served on the licensee, suspend the licence for a period of not more than 60 days specified in the notice, commencing on service of the notice.
(3) A notice under subsection (2) has effect according to its terms, whether or not the licensee has been afforded an opportunity to be heard as to whether the licence should be suspended.
(4) Within 7 days after a licence has been suspended under this section, the licensee must:
(a) lodge the suspended licence at an office of the Department, or
(b) if unable to lodge the suspended licence, lodge at an office of the Department a statement signed by the licensee and providing accurate and complete details of why the licence cannot be lodged.

    Maximum penalty: 10 penalty units.
(5) If, during the suspension of a licence under this section, the Secretary is satisfied that the facts and circumstances that gave rise to the suspension have so altered that the suspension should be terminated, it is the duty of the Secretary, by further notice specifying the date of termination, to terminate the suspension without delay and restore the licence to the licensee.
(6) Without affecting the generality of subsection (2):
(a) a second or subsequent notice may be served on a licensee under that subsection in respect of conduct of the kind to which that subsection refers, and
(b) any such notice may be served during a period of suspension of the licence concerned.
(7) This section has effect despite the provisions of any other Act, and the power conferred by this section is in addition to, and does not limit or displace, a power conferred by or under any other Act that authorises the Secretary or any other person to suspend or cancel a licence or take other action in respect of a licence or in respect of the conduct concerned.
(8) A licensee may apply to the Tribunal for an administrative review under the Administrative Decisions Review Act 1997 of a decision of the Secretary under this section.


Part 6A Jurisdiction of Tribunal in relation to consumer claims
===============================================================================


*Note* For the purposes of comparison, provisions of this Part contain bracketed notes in headings drawing attention (“cf”) to equivalent or comparable (though not necessarily identical) provisions of the Consumer Claims Act 1998 (the CC Act 1998) or the Consumer Claims Regulation 2014 (the CC Reg 2014), as in force before the enactment of this Part.


Division 1 Preliminary
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 79B   Objects of this Part(cf CC Act 1998, s 2A)
The objects of this Part are to provide for remedies for, and the straightforward resolution of, disputes concerning the supply of goods and services to consumers.


#### 79C   Conferral of jurisdiction under this or any other Act not affected
This Part does not affect any provision of this or any other Act that confers jurisdiction on the Tribunal.


#### 79D   Definitions(cf CC Act 1998, s 3 (1) and s 3 (3) (transferred to definition of “consumer”))
In this Part:
consumer means any of the following persons or bodies to whom or to which a supplier has supplied, or agreed to supply, goods or services (whether or not under a contract), or with whom or with which a supplier has entered into a contract that is collateral to a contract for the supply of goods or services:
(a) a natural person,
(b) a firm (within the meaning of the Partnership Act 1892),
(c) a small proprietary company (within the meaning of the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth),
(d) an owners corporation constituted under the Strata Schemes Management Act 2015,
(e) a company that owns an interest in land and has a memorandum or articles of association conferring on each owner of shares in the company a right to occupy under a lease or licence a part or parts of a building erected on the land,
(f) an incorporated association,
(g) an unincorporated body whose members are associated for a common purpose,
(h) a company limited by guarantee (other than a company limited both by shares and by guarantee).
    consumer claim—see section 79E.
    goods means any tangible thing that is or may be the subject of trade or commerce, but does not include money or an interest in land.
    services—see section 79F.
    supplier means a person who, in the course of carrying on (or purporting to carry on) a business, supplies goods or services.
    supply—see section 79G.


#### 79E   Meaning of “consumer claim”(cf CC Act 1998, s 3A)
(1) For the purposes of this Part, a consumer claim means a claim by a consumer, for one or more of the following remedies, that arises from a supply of goods or services by a supplier to the consumer (whether or not under a contract) or that arises under a contract that is collateral to a contract for the supply of goods or services:
(a) the payment of a specified sum of money,
(b) the supply of specified services,
(c) relief from payment of a specified sum of money,
(d) the delivery, return or replacement of specified goods or goods of a specified description.
(2) For the avoidance of doubt, a reference in this Part to a consumer claim includes a reference to a claim by a consumer against a supplier (for example, a manufacturer or wholesaler) who is not the direct supplier of goods or services to the consumer if the claim arises from or in connection with the supply of those goods or services by the direct supplier to the consumer.


#### 79F   Meaning of “services”(cf CC Act 1998, s 3 (1), definition of “services”)
(1) For the purposes of this Part, a reference to services is a reference to any of the following:
(a) the performance of work (including work of a professional nature), whether with or without the supply of goods,
(b) the provision of gas or electricity or the provision of any other form of energy,
(c) the provision, or the making available for use, of facilities for amusement, entertainment, recreation or instruction,
(d) the letting of premises for vacation or recreational purposes,
(e) the conferring of rights, benefits or privileges for which remuneration is payable in the form of a royalty, tribute, levy or similar exaction,
(f) the provision of insurance cover,
(g) the rights or benefits provided, granted or conferred under a contract between a banker and a customer of the banker entered into in the course of the carrying on by the banker of the business of banking,
(h) the provision of credit,
(i) any other rights (including rights in relation to, and interests in, property), benefits, privileges or facilities that are, or are to be, provided, granted or conferred in trade or commerce.
(2) However, a reference in this Part to services does not include a reference to any of the following:
(a) the supply of goods or the performance of work under a contract of employment,
(b) rights or benefits provided, granted or conferred under a service contract (within the meaning of the Retirement Villages Act 1999),
(c) the provision of assurance cover in respect of a person’s life.


#### 79G   Meaning of “supply”(cf CC Act 1998, s 3 (1) (definition of “supply”) and s 3 (2))
(1) For the purposes of this Part, a reference to the supply of goods includes a reference to any of the following:
(a) supplying goods by way of sale, exchange, lease, hire or hire-purchase,
(b) resupplying goods,
(c) agreeing to supply goods,
(d) supplying goods together with services.
(2) For the purposes of this Part, a reference to the supply of services includes a reference to any of the following:
(a) providing, granting or rendering services for valuable consideration,
(b) agreeing to supply services,
(c) supplying services together with goods.


#### 79H   Persons presumed to be consumers(cf CC Act 1998, s 4)
For the purposes of this Part:
(a) a person or body claiming to be a consumer is to be presumed to be a consumer until the contrary is proved, and
(b) in any legal proceedings (including proceedings before the Tribunal), the onus of proving that a person or body claiming to be a consumer is not a consumer is on the party who seeks to establish that fact.


Division 2 Application to and jurisdiction of Tribunal
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 79I   Consumer may apply to Tribunal(cf CC Act 1998, s 6)
Any consumer may apply to the Tribunal for determination of a consumer claim.


#### 79J   General statement of jurisdiction(cf CC Act 1998, s 7 (1))
The Tribunal has jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided by this Division, to hear and determine a consumer claim the subject of an application under this Division.


#### 79K   Supply or agreement made, or supply intended to be made, in New South Wales(cf CC Act 1998, s 7 (2) and (3))
(1) The Tribunal has jurisdiction to hear and determine a consumer claim only if:
(a) the goods or services to which the claim relates were supplied in New South Wales, or
(b) a contract or other agreement to which the claim relates contemplated that the goods or services would be supplied in New South Wales (whether or not they were so supplied), or
(c) a contract or other agreement to which the claim relates was made in New South Wales (whether or not the goods or services were supplied in New South Wales).
(2) The Tribunal has such jurisdiction whether or not:
(a) a contract or other agreement to which the claim relates confers jurisdiction on any other court or tribunal (whether in New South Wales or elsewhere), or
(b) the rules of private international law require a law other than the law of New South Wales to be applied to the hearing or determination of the claim.


#### 79L   Limitation periods(cf CC Act 1998, s 7 (4) and (4A))
(1) The Tribunal does not have jurisdiction to hear and determine a consumer claim if any of the following apply:
(a) the cause of action giving rise to the claim first accrued more than 3 years before the date on which the claim is lodged,
(b) the goods or services to which the claim relates were supplied (or, if made in instalments, were last supplied) to the claimant more than 10 years before the date on which the claim is lodged.
(2) Nothing in this section affects any period of limitation under the Limitation Act 1969.


#### 79M   Claim relating to solicitor’s or barrister’s costs(cf CC Act 1998, s 7 (5))
A matter arising in relation to the fairness or reasonableness of the costs charged by a barrister or solicitor for an item of business transacted by the barrister or solicitor is not within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal if the costs can be the subject of a costs assessment under Part 3.2 of the Legal Profession Act 2004.


Division 3 Orders of Tribunal
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 79N   Orders in favour of claimant(cf CC Act 1998, s 8 (1))
In determining a consumer claim wholly or partly in favour of a claimant, the Tribunal may, subject to this Division, make any one or more of the following orders that it considers appropriate:
(a) an order that requires a respondent to pay to the claimant a specified amount of money,
(b) an order that requires a respondent to perform specified work in order to rectify a defect in goods or services to which the claim relates,
(c) an order that requires a respondent to supply to the claimant specified services other than work,
(d) in the case of a claim for relief from payment of money—an order declaring that a specified amount of money is not due or owing by the claimant to a respondent,
(e) an order that requires a respondent to deliver to the claimant goods of a specified description,
(f) an order that requires a respondent to return to the claimant specified goods which are in the possession or under the control of that respondent, whether the property in the goods has passed or not,
(g) an order that requires a respondent to replace goods to which the claim relates,
(h) an order that requires a respondent to refund all or part of the purchase price of specified goods that are in the possession (or under the control) of the claimant and the claimant to return all or part of those goods to the respondent (whether the property in the goods has passed or not).


#### 79O   Orders in favour of respondent(cf CC Act 1998, s 8 (2))
In determining a consumer claim wholly or partly in favour of a respondent to the claim, the Tribunal may make any one or more of the following orders that it considers appropriate:
(a) an order dismissing the claim or a part of the claim,
(b) an order that requires the claimant to pay to the respondent a specified amount of money,
(c) an order that requires the claimant to return to the respondent specified goods which are in the possession or under the control of the claimant, whether the property in the goods has passed or not.


### 79P   Orders where more than one respondent(cf CC Act 1998, s 8 (2A))
Without limiting section 79N or 79O, in determining a consumer claim in which there is more than one respondent, the Tribunal may make any one or more of the following orders that it considers appropriate:
(a) an order that requires a respondent to pay to another respondent a specified amount of money,
(b) an order that requires a respondent to supply to another respondent specified services other than work,
(c) an order that requires a respondent to deliver to another respondent goods of a specified description,
(d) an order that requires a respondent (the first respondent) to return to another respondent specified goods that are in the possession or under the control of the first respondent, whether the property in the goods has passed or not.


#### 79Q   Other matters relating to orders under section 79N, 79O or 79P(cf CC Act 1998, s 8 (3)–(5))
(1) In making an order under section 79N, 79O or 79P requiring a party to a consumer claim to pay a specified amount of money or to take any other specified action, the Tribunal must, unless it has good reason to the contrary, specify a period within which the money must be paid or the action must be taken.
(2) The Tribunal may not make any of the orders referred to in this section unless the claimant’s case has been presented to the Tribunal (whether or not in person) following the making of the relevant application under section 79I.
(3) Nothing in subsection (2) prevents the Tribunal from dismissing or adjourning proceedings under section 55 of the Civil and Administrative Tribunal Act 2013.


#### 79R   Interim and ancillary orders(cf CC Act 1998, s 10)
(1) In the course of hearing a consumer claim, the Tribunal may make any interim order that appears to the Tribunal desirable to be made pending final determination of the claim.
(2) When making an order for the determination of a consumer claim, the Tribunal may make such ancillary orders as it considers necessary for the purpose of enabling the order to have full effect.


#### 79S   Monetary limit on Tribunal’s jurisdiction to make orders(cf CC Act 1998, s 14 and CC Reg 2014, cl 4)
(1) The Tribunal has no jurisdiction to make, in respect of a particular consumer claim, an order or orders in favour of the claimant (or, where there are two or more claimants, in favour of those claimants) if the relevant total under or because of the order or orders would exceed the prescribed amount.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the relevant total is the total of:
(a) the amount or amounts (if any) of money to be paid, and
(b) the value or values (if any) of the work to be performed, or the services to be supplied, and
(c) the amount or amounts (if any) of money to be declared not to be due or owing, and
(d) the value or values of goods (if any) to be delivered or replaced.
(3) The Tribunal has no jurisdiction to make in respect of a particular consumer claim an order or orders referred to in section 79O if the amount or the total of the amounts (if any) to be paid under or because of the order or orders would exceed the prescribed amount.
(4) The Tribunal has no jurisdiction to make in respect of a particular consumer claim an order or orders under section 79P if the relevant total under or because of the order or orders would exceed the prescribed amount.
(5) For the purposes of subsection (4), the relevant total is the total of:
(a) the amount or amounts (if any) of money to be paid, and
(b) the value or values (if any) of the services to be supplied, and
(c) the value or values of goods (if any) to be delivered.
(6) Subsections (1), (3) and (4) do not apply in relation to a consumer claim:
(a) arising from the supply of a new motor vehicle that is used substantially for private purposes within the meaning of the Motor Vehicles Taxation Act 1988, or
(b) relating to commission fees charged by agents licensed under the Property, Stock and Business Agents Act 2002.
(7) In this section:
    new motor vehicle means a motor vehicle that is not a second-hand motor vehicle within the meaning of the Motor Dealers and Repairers Act 2013.
    prescribed amount means $40,000 or such other amount as is prescribed for the purposes of this section.


### 79T   Suspension of orders(cf CC Act 1998, s 11)
(1) If the Tribunal has made an order under this Division that has not yet ceased to have effect, the Tribunal may (on the application of the person against whom or in whose favour the order was made or of its own motion) suspend the operation of the order by making a suspension order.
(2) The Tribunal may make a suspension order for such reasons and for such period, or until the happening of such event or the fulfilment of such conditions, as the Tribunal specifies in the suspension order.
(3) Nothing in this section limits the operation of section 43 (2) of the Interpretation Act 1987.


#### 79U   Matters to be considered by Tribunal when making orders(cf CC Act 1998, s 13)
(1) When making any orders under this Division, the Tribunal must be satisfied that the orders will be fair and equitable to all the parties to the claim.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), when determining whether or not to make an order under this Division, the Tribunal is to take the following factors into consideration if they are material to the particular circumstances of the case:
(a) whether or not there was any material inequality in bargaining power between the parties to the claim,
(b) whether or not any party to the claim was not reasonably able to protect the party’s interest because of the age or physical or mental capacity of that party,
(c) whether or not any person who represented any of the parties to the claim was not reasonably able to protect the interests of the party represented because of the age or physical or mental capacity of that person,
(d) the relative economic circumstances, educational background and literacy of the parties to the claim and of any person who represented any of those parties,
(e) whether or not and when independent legal or other expert advice was obtained by the claimant,
(f) whether any undue influence, unfair pressure or unfair tactic was exerted on or used against the claimant:
  (i) by any other party to the claim, or
  (ii) by any person acting or appearing or purporting to act on behalf of any other party to the claim, or
  (iii) by any person to the knowledge of any other party to the claim or of any person acting or appearing or purporting to act on behalf of any other party to the claim,
(g) the conduct of the parties to the claim in relation to similar transactions to which any of them has been a party,
(h) where the subject of the claim is a contract for the supply of goods or services or a contract collateral to such a contract:
  (i) whether or not before or at the time when the contract was made its provisions were the subject of negotiation, and
  (ii) whether or not it was reasonably practicable for the claimant to negotiate for the alteration of the contract or to reject any of its provisions, and
  (iii) whether or not any provisions of the contract impose conditions that are unreasonably difficult to comply with or not reasonably necessary for the protection of the legitimate interests of any party to the claim, and
  (iv) if the contract is wholly or partly in writing, the physical form of the contract and the intelligibility of the language in which it is expressed, and
  (v) the extent (if any) to which the provisions of the contract and their legal effect were accurately explained by any person to the claimant and whether or not the claimant understood the provisions and their effect, and
  (vi) the commercial or other setting, purpose and effect of the contract.
(3) Without limiting subsection (1), when determining whether or not to make an order or orders under section 79N, 79O or 79P, it is appropriate for the Tribunal to consider (if relevant to the particular circumstances of the case):
(a) any code of practice prescribed under this Act, and
(b) if the Secretary has brought to the attention of the Tribunal any other code of practice (whether or not prescribed by or under any other Act)—that code of practice.


#### 79V   Joint liability(cf CC Act 1998, s 12)
Section 95 of the [Civil Procedure Act 2005] applies to and in respect of an order of the Tribunal under this Division as if such an order were a judgement of the Supreme Court.


Division 4 Miscellaneous
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


#### 79W   Certain matters to be reported to President of Tribunal or to Minister(cf CC Act 1998, s 15)
(1) Members of the Tribunal may give a written report to the President of the Tribunal concerning:
(a) any matter that arises out of the hearing or determination of a consumer claim by the Tribunal (constituted by those members) that they consider to be of importance as regards the relationship of consumer and supplier, or
(b) any matter that, in their opinion, is relevant to the administration of this Part and should be brought to the attention of the President of the Tribunal.
(2) The President of the Tribunal may give a written report to the Minister concerning:
(a) any matter that arises out of the hearing or determination of a consumer claim by the Tribunal (constituted by the President) that the President considers to be of importance as regards the relationship of consumer and supplier, or
(b) any matter that, in the opinion of the President, is relevant to the administration of this Part and should be brought to the attention of the Minister, or
(c) any matter reported to the President by any member of the Tribunal in accordance with subsection (1) and that the President considers should be brought to the attention of the Minister.
(3) If, in the course of, or as a result of, the hearing of a consumer claim by the Tribunal, it appears to the Tribunal that a supplier has, in the course of the supplier’s dealings with the claimant, engaged in conduct that should be brought to the attention of the Secretary, the Tribunal may give a written report to the Secretary concerning that conduct.
(4) The Secretary may give a copy of any report relating to a supplier that is given to the Secretary under this section (or any information contained in the report) to:
(a) any authority responsible for the administration of a law that appears to the Secretary to require the supplier (as a supplier of goods or services) to be the holder of a licence, certificate of registration, practising certificate, permit or other authority, or
(b) any trade organisation comprising persons (or mostly persons) who supply goods or services of the kind supplied by the supplier, but only if it appears to the Secretary that the supplier is a member of that organisation.
(5) The Secretary has qualified privilege in proceedings for defamation arising out of a communication made under this section.


#### 79X   Power of Secretary to establish and maintain list of unsatisfactory suppliers(cf CC Act 1998, s 16)
(1) The Secretary may establish and maintain for the purposes of this Part a list to be known as the unsatisfactory suppliers list.
(2) The Secretary may enter in the unsatisfactory suppliers list the name and any other prescribed particulars of:
(a) any supplier who has been the subject of an adverse report made under this Division, or
(b) any supplier who has failed to comply with the requirements of an order made under this Part within the period specified in the order, or
(c) any supplier against whom more than the prescribed number of orders has been made under this Part during the period prescribed for the purposes of this paragraph.
(3) The Secretary must not enter the name and other particulars of a supplier in the unsatisfactory suppliers list unless the supplier has first been given an opportunity to show cause as to why the name and particulars of the supplier should not be entered in the list and, having been given such an opportunity, has not shown cause within such period (not less than 7 days after the opportunity was given) as the Secretary may allow.
(4) The Secretary must remove the name and other prescribed particulars of a supplier from the unsatisfactory suppliers list at the end of the period prescribed for the purposes of this subsection, on the happening of a prescribed event or on fulfilment of prescribed conditions.
(5) The Secretary may publish in such manner as the Secretary thinks fit a copy of the unsatisfactory suppliers list or of any particulars currently entered in the list.
(6) The Secretary has qualified privilege in proceedings for defamation arising out of a publication made in accordance with subsection (5).


Part 7 NSW Consumer Law Fund
===============================================================================


#### 79Y   NSW Consumer Law Fund
(1) There is to be established in the Special Deposits Account a NSW Consumer Law Fund (the Fund).
(2) There is payable into the Fund:
(a) any pecuniary penalty ordered by a court under section 224 of the ACL to be paid to the State, and
(b) any amount ordered by a court under section 239 (1) of the ACL to be paid into the Fund, and
(c) the proceeds of the investment of money in the Fund, and
(d) any money directed to be paid into the Fund by or under this or any other Act.
(3) There is payable out of the Fund:
(a) money to non-party consumers in accordance with an order under section 239 (1) of the ACL, and
(b) special purpose grants for improving consumer well-being, consumer protection or fair trading, and
(c) administrative expenses incurred in relation to the Fund, and
(d) money that is directed to be paid from the Fund by or under this or any other Act.
(4) Subject to the regulations, money is to be paid out of the Fund in accordance with the directions of the Minister made on the recommendation of the Secretary.
(5) Any amount ordered by a court under section 239 (1) of the ACL to be paid into the Fund must not be paid out of the Fund except in accordance with the terms of the order.
(6) The Minister may, on the recommendation of the Secretary, invest money in the Fund:
(a) if the Minister is a GSF agency for the purposes of Part 6 of the Government Sector Finance Act 2018—in any way that the Minister is permitted to invest money under that Part, or
(b) if the Minister is not a GSF agency for the purposes of Part 6 of the Government Sector Finance Act 2018—in any way approved by the Treasurer.