>>> 4 July 2018
Attention: Jonathan Kresner
VIA EMAIL: jkresner@gmail.com

>>> Museum Towers Suite 507, 
    Level 5 267 Castlereagh Street
    Sydney NSW 2000 (Opposite Downing Centre Courts)
    Tel: 02 9261 8881 Fax: 02 9264 0880 
    Email: info@criminallaw.com.au 
    Web: www.sydneycriminallawyers.com.au

# ADVICE ON BRIEF OF EVIDENCE
We confirm receipt of your Brief of Evidence (the “Brief”) and provide you with this Advice after reviewing its content, the law surrounding your charge, and our experience in matters of this nature.

#### Next Court Listing
We confirm that your matter is next listed before the Waverley Local Court on 11 July 2018 for Mention. We also confirm that you have retained separate independent legal representatives for your substantive matters listed on 11 July 2018. In saying that, we provide you with this advice on the basis that you have retained a separate representative for this matter moving forward.

In providing you with this Advice, we have taken in to consideration your version of events, provided by you to our Mr. Awada via email on 22 June 2018.

#### The Charge
From the outset, it is alleged on the Indictment against you that between 6.29 pm on 15 March 2018 and 10 am on 16 March 2018 you did use a carriage service (namely, your email) to threaten serious harm, where the victim feared for his safety.

### Using a carriage service to make a threat
The charge is one pursuant to Section 474.15 (2) of the Criminal Code Act 1995. This is a Commonwealth Act, and the relevant provision reads as follows:

\`\`\`
474.15 - Using a carriage service to make a threat 

Threat to cause serious harm
(2) A person (the first person) commits an offence if:
  (a) the first person uses a carriage service to make to another person (the second person) a threat to cause serious harm to the second person or a third person; and
  (b) the first person intends the second person to fear that the threat will be carried out.

Penalty: Imprisonment for 7 years. The Factual Matrix
\`\`\`

The Police allege that you and the victim (name not provided in the facts) have been in contact with one another for approximately 3 years. It is alleged that the victim is the Strata Manager of the premises in which you reside.

The dominant allegation against you is that at 6.29 pm on 15 March 2018, you sent an email to the victim from the email address jkresner@gmail.com to the victim’s email address, being admin@oneillstrata.com

It is alleged that this email was intended by you to be received by the victim. Quoting from the Police Fact sheet, it is alleged that the email states 

> “This isn’t a game. Your fucking incompetents leaving the rooftop membrane leaking for multiple years and consistently fumbling strict maintenance duty is fucking up people’s health. I’m coming for you the second I’m feeling healthy enough to pull the trigger”.

It is alleged that on 16 March 2018 the victim attended the Waverley Police Station to report the incident. On 25 March 2018, you were interviewed by police in respect of the above allegations, and it is alleged (in the Police facts) that you made full admissions to the email being sent by you and that it was intended towards the victim.

#### Elements of the Offence
In order for you to be found guilty by a court in respect of the offence above, the Police must prove ‘beyond a reasonable doubt’ the following elements, or ingredients:

1. You;
2. Used a Carriage Service (i.e. email, phone, computer, etc.); and
3. In such a way that a ‘reasonable person’ would feel threatened or fearful.

In respect of the above, a "fear" includes apprehension. 
Further, a threat to cause serious harm to a person includes a threat to substantially contribute to serious harm to the person.

It appears, from the Brief of Evidence, that you have admitted that you were the owner of the account jkresner@gmail.com. This would satisfy the first element above. Secondly, you have admitted to sending the email, which would satisfy the element of ‘using a carriage service’, even if this is done via iPhone, computer, or otherwise.
     
The third and final element before this charge can be proven against you beyond a reasonable doubt is whether a ‘reasonable person’, in the victim’s position, would regard the email sent by you as threatening serious harm to them. It is assumed that the Police have brought this charge against you due to the use of the phrase 

> “I’m coming for you the second I’m feeling healthy enough to pull the trigger”.

The case law in this area traditionally state that a reasonable person may regard the email as threatening serious harm in the following ways:

1. Either the method that was used was of a harassing, intimidating or offensive manner; or
2. That the content of the email had threatened serious harm towards the victim.

In respect of your matter, it is assumed that [due to lack of constant and incessant emails] the Police are alleging that the content of the email would cause a reasonable person in the ‘shoes’ of the victim to fear serious injury; that is, fear that you would ‘come after him/her and “pull the trigger”’.

It is important to keep in mind that the provision notes that:
1. the first person i.e. you, uses a carriage service to make to another person (the victim) a threat to cause serious harm to the second person; and
2. the first person i.e. you intends the second person (the victim) to fear that the threat will be carried out.

The above elements of the offence make it clear that a threat must be made. If we assume that a threat was made in respect of ‘pulling the trigger’, the Police would still need to prove that you in fact intended the victim to fear that the threat will be carried out. This means that stating the above with no intention to cause fear to the victim, nor any intention that the threat will actually be carried out is not enough to establish this element.


#### The Brief
The Brief contains the following key items:

1. Statement of Constable Paul Gacic dated 13 June 2018;
2. The statement of John Thomas O’Neill dated 16 March 2018;
3. A copy of the email which you allegedly sent to the victim on 15 March 2018; and
4. The notebook conversation between you and Constable Gacic on 25 March 2018.

It does not appear that there are any outstanding Police Brief items.
    
##### Statement of Constable Paul Gacic dated 13 June 2018
Gacic provides a 4 page signed statement after receiving the victim at the Waverley Police Station on 16 March 2018. He speaks with the victim, Mr John O’Neill and takes his formal statement. On 25 March 2018, he takes your statement in the form of a notebook interview (provided in the brief and transcribed below).

He transcribes the notebook interview with you on 25 March 2018 into his statement, and notes the following:

1. You consent to the taking of the notebook interview;
2. You provide the constable with your email address, being jkresner@gmail.com
3. You state that you have argued with the victim ‘hundreds of times’
4. You know the victim as he is the Strata Manager
5. You sent an email to the victim recently, and you confirm that the email was intended for him
6. You state to the police that “I am planning on suing them to fix the remaining items in my apartment as well as the losses suffered, by their breach of duty to not repair my apartment. I am very, very upset at the inconvenience of not having access to my apartment and not having a living space condusive to helping me manage my eczema and asthma. Specifically I have sent many emails about how upset I have been”
7. You state that you intention in sending the email to the victim was to “be a reminder that I am suing them”
8. Fairness questions were adopted by Constable Rider n pages 5-6 of the notebook statement
9. You were then charged with the matter.

We note that immediately when questioned about the alleged threat made in the email, even though your attention was never brought to the exact part of the email which is threatening, you note that you intended to send the email as a reminder that you were suing him, and that you sent it out of frustration. You have also had many arguments with the victim prior, so this is not a once-off, surprising ‘threat’ to the victim.

#### Statement of John Thomas O’Neill dated 16 March 2018
John O’Neill is the alleged victim. He concedes that over the years you have had issues with your unit, and notes that you believe that he is not doing his job as the Strata Manager, especially in relation to leaking pipes, cockroaches and insects. He concedes that emails had been previously exchanged between you and him, and that nothing had been done to address these issues.

The victim alleges that at 6.30 pm on 15 March 2018 he received an email from you stating that cockroaches were laying eggs in your apartment. It is in this email that the victim alleges that you called him ‘incompetent’ and that you would ‘pull the trigger’
 
once you felt better. He provided this email to the police and it is part of the Police Brief (see below).
In respect of how the email made him feel, we note the victim alleges that the email was “confrontational” and “frightening”. He stated that he believes that he “has fears for his safety and the safety of his staff” (see page 2 of statement). He stated that he felt physically threatened by the phrase “pull the trigger”, and that he was worried due to your use of this phrase. He states that at no point did he give you permission to intimidate or harass him the way you allegedly did.
A copy of the email which you allegedly sent to the victim on 15 March 2018
The Brief contains the following email, its content being:
“This isn’t a game. Your fucking incompetents leaving the rooftop membrane leaking for multiple years and consistently fumbling strict maintenance duty is fucking up people’s health. I’m coming for you the second I’m feeling healthy enough to pull the trigger”.
The Brief contains an email with ‘Elizabeth Bateman’ written on the top. In fact, the email in the Brief is an email allegedly sent from jkresner@gmail.com to Eliabeth Bateman at 6.29 pm on Thursday 15 March 2018. Therefore, apart from your admission to Police in your notebook interview on 25 March 2018 that you sent the email to the victim, the email provided in the Brief only refers to an email sent by you to Elizabeth Bateman, and not the victim. However, given the admissions made in your interview with police (which we note you voluntarily did this without duress or influence), we may assume that the email was sent to the victim.
We confirm that the handwritten notebook interview was correctly transcribed into the statement of Constable Gacic (noted above) and no further comment needs to be made other than that the interview was done after obtaining your consent and you signed the relevant pages adopting the statement.
Key Issues at the Hearing:
a. As noted above, if it is assumed that the first 2 elements are established i.e. that you did use a carriage service (email) to send an email to the victim, it still leaves open the question of whether you intended the victim to fear that the threat will be carried out. This means that stating the above with no intention to cause fear to the victim, nor any intention that the threat will actually be carried out is not enough to establish this element.
  
b. Your immediate explanation when questioned by Constable Gacic is of great importance in contextualising the email that was sent. You state to Constable Gacic that “I am planning on suing them to fix the remaining items in my apartment as well as the losses suffered, by their breach of duty to not repair my apartment. I am very, very upset at the inconvenience of not having access to my apartment and not having a living space condusive to helping me manage my eczema and asthma. Specifically I have sent many emails about how upset I have been”. You further note that your intention in sending the email to the victim was to “be a reminder that I am suing them”. In reviewing this, and reviewing the emails you have provided us, it is clear that the email was sent out of frustration after having consistent issues with the victim regarding your personal living circumstances, which has been exacerbating your existing eczema and asthma conditions.
c. Would an objective reasonable person fear a threat of personal harm (whether physical or mental) from the content of the email? It is clear that the email is sent along with numerous other emails (you have provided) and the court would need to review these emails in context. We are of the view the email you sent was one sent out of frustration, and it would be submitted that this would not satisfy the test that you would ‘actually’ carry out the threat. The victim would need to be cross-examined at the hearing as to the other emails he has sent you, and how his perception of the threat is in fact false, especially in circumstances where he has sent you emails on a similar wavelength. With this in mind, an email sent with a metaphorical undertone of ‘pulling the trigger’ to mean that I will get the ball rolling in suing you does not amount to an intention on your part to ‘threaten serious harm’.
d. It appears that the alleged threat of serious harm is misconceived and exaggerated. It appears that a reasonable person may expect to use the phrase ‘pull the trigger’ when referring to:
1. Making a final decision; or
2. Committing to a course of action; or
3. Taking a certain course of action; or
4. Taking a decisive step.
The above meanings are harmonious with the explanation you gave police in the notebook interview and the court will be invited to conclude that there was no threat of serious harm in your email.
e. The remaining emails sent to us in your instructions will need to be put to the victim in compliance with Brown v Dunn; that is, putting your case to the victim in cross-examination to give him to opportunity to comment of the emails, and to

answer as to why he only gave the Police one email (despite there being numerous
emails in a chain of emails between you and the victim).
f. Whether the Police can prove that the email was actually sent to the victim, noting
that there is no evidence (apart from your admission) that the email was sent to the victim. This is a side issue but worth noting.
Noting the above, we are of the view that the Police will have difficulties with respect to the third and final element of the offence. In saying that, we recommend the following course below.
Course Moving Forward
We confirm that your matter is next listed before the Waverley Local Court on 11 July 2018 for mention. We envision that the court will be seeking a plea in respect of the charge.
On the above, we would advise the following course:
1. That on 11 July 2018 a plea of not guilty be maintained in respect of the charge; and
2. That a 6 week adjournment is sought to allow you (through us if instructed) to write to the Police to seek the withdrawal of the charge on the basis that the Brief does not satisfy the third and final element. Writing to the Police would address the above issues prior to Hearing, and would allow you to formally attach the email chain provided to us to contextualize the email alleging threat. Further to this, writing to the police on a “Without Prejudice Basis, Save for Costs” will allow you, if you are successful at the defended hearing, to seek professional costs in respect of the police prosecution against you.
We await your careful review of the above and your considered response.
Fouad Awada
Senior Associate
 