# [Criminal Code Act 1995]
Part 10.6 - Telecommunications Services 
===============================================================================

Division 473 — Preliminary
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

####  473.4  Determining whether material is offensive
(1) The matters to be taken into account in deciding for the purposes of this Part whether reasonable persons would regard particular material, or a particular use of a carriage service, as being, in all the circumstances, offensive, include:
(a)  the standards of morality, decency and propriety generally accepted by reasonable adults; and
(b)  the literary, artistic or educational merit (if any) of the material; and
(c)  the general character of the material (including whether it is of a medical, legal or scientific character).
(2)  ...
(3)  ...
(4)  In this section:
     consent means free and voluntary agreement.


Division 474 — Telecommunications offences                                    
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Subdivision C — Offences related to use of telecommunications


#### 474.15  Using a carriage service to make a threat

1. _Threat to kill_
   
   A person (the first person) is guilty of an offence if: 
   (a) the first person uses a carriage service to make to another person (the second person) a threat to kill the second person or a third person; and 
   (b) the first person intends the second person to fear that the threat will be carried out.
   
   Penalty:  Imprisonment for 10 years.

2. _Threat to cause serious harm_
   
   A person (the first person) is guilty of an offence if:
   (a) the first person uses a carriage service to make to another person (the second person) a threat to cause serious harm to the second person or a third person; and 
   (b) the first person intends the second person to fear that the threat will be carried out.

   Penalty:  Imprisonment for 7 years.

3. _Actual fear not necessary_
   
   In a prosecution for an offence against this section, it is not necessary to prove that the person receiving the threat actually feared that the threat would be carried out.

4.  _Definitions_
   
    In this section:
    - ___fear___ includes apprehension.
    - __threat to cause serious harm__ to a person includes a threat to substantially contribute to serious harm to the person.