## THE PLEADING

27. The appellant’s statement of claim went through a number of formulations. Ultimately, the appellant repleaded his cause of action as one in nuisance. The pleading in question, called a “Substituted Statement of Claim” (which was not filed but was the pleading considered by the primary judge for the purposes of the separate question) described the lot entitlement of the appellant’s unit and the relevant parts of the common property, including the façade and external walls, windows and glass doors on certain sides of the unit, the dividing wall between two units, the ceiling and floor and tiled balconies.

28. The appellant then alleged that pursuant to s 61 of the SSM Act the respondent at all times had for the benefit of each of the owners, including the appellant, the management and control of the use of the common property of the strata scheme. He pleaded that pursuant to s 62 of the SSM Act the respondent was under a continuing obligation properly to maintain the common property and to keep it in a state of good and serviceable repair.

29. He then alleged that the building was constructed as a concrete frame structure, with concrete columns and floor slabs, supporting a façade comprised structural Hebel panel walls and large expanses of aluminium framed glazing, including fixed glass panels, sliding doors and windows and associated water-proofing systems that allowed water and moisture to penetrate through the common property into owners’ lots, including that of the appellant due to 12 identified water-proofing defects.

30. He alleged that in 2007 heavy rain fell in Newcastle causing water to penetrate into the appellant’s unit and also through the common property into other units.

31. He alleged that on various subsequent occasions prior to March 2013 there was further water penetration through the common property.

32. He then alleged that on 2 and 3 March 2013 heavy rain fell within Newcastle causing water and moisture to penetrate into the appellant’s unit, rendering it unfit for habitation.

33. The appellant alleged that at all material times from about the second half of 2007 or early 2008 at the latest, the respondent knew about the water-proofing defects, knew that those defects allowed water and moisture to penetrate through the common property into the appellant’s unit, and knew or ought to have known that water and moisture would continue to do so unless and until the common property was repaired. He alleged that the respondent failed to repair the common property to prevent further water and moisture penetration and thereby allowed a state of affairs to continue that since early March 2013 caused and continued to cause substantial and unwarranted interference with his use and enjoyment of his unit.

34. As the respondent submitted, the gravamen of the appellant’s claim is that the respondent failed to repair the alleged water-proofing defects in the common property and thereby allowed a state of affairs to continue, such that as a result of water and moisture penetration there was a substantial interference with the appellant’s use and enjoyment of his lot. The appellant’s claim is that the respondent owed a positive duty to repair the common property. The respondent submits, partly in reliance on Thoo, that no such positive duty can arise except under statute.

    The [Strata Schemes (Freehold Development) Act]: Section 21

35. Section 6(1) and (2) of the SSFD Act provides:

    “6   Construction of Act
    (1)     This Act shall be read and construed with the Real Property Act 1900 as if it formed part thereof.
    (2)     The Real Property Act 1900 applies to lots and common property in the same way as it applies to other land except in so far as any provision of that Act is inconsistent with this Act or is incapable of applying to lots or common property.”

36. Section 18(1) of the SSFD Act provides that upon registration of a strata plan any common property in that plan vests in the body corporate for the estate or interest evidenced by the folio of the register comprising the land the subject of the plan but freed and discharged from any mortgage charge, covenant charge, lease, writ or caveat affecting that land immediately before registration of the plan. The “body corporate” means an owners corporation constituted under s 11 of the SSM Act. Section 20 of the SSFD Act provides that the estate or interest of the owners corporation in common property that is vested in it is held by it as agent for the proprietors of the lots and if there is more than one proprietor, as tenants in common in shares proportional to the unit entitlements of their respective lots. Section 24(2) provides that the beneficial interest of a proprietor of a lot in the estate or interest in the common property held by the owners corporation as agent for that proprietor cannot be severed from or dealt with, except in conjunction with the lot.

37. The interest of a lot owner in the common property is an equitable interest as a tenant in common with other lot owners. The relationship between the owners corporation as legal owner of the common property and the lot owners as beneficial tenants in common is that of trustee and beneficiary or analogous thereto (Brookfield Multiplex Ltd v Owners Corporation Strata Plan 61288 (2014) 254 CLR 185; [2014] HCA 36 at [10] per French CJ).

38. Section 21 has been quoted above at [14]. It is contained in Div 2 of Pt 2 of the SSFD Act.

39. Division 2 in which s 21 is located is headed “Common Property”. Division 2 provides for the vesting of common property in the owners corporation on registration of the strata plan (s 18), the acquisition of additional common property (s 19), the relationship between the owners corporation and lot owners in respect of the common property vested in the owners corporation (ss 20 and 24), the transfer or lease of common property by an owners corporation pursuant to a special resolution (s 25), the creation or variation of easements, restrictions and positive covenants of the common property (s 26), and the dedication of common property as a public road or public reserve (27(2) and (3)).

40. This is the immediate context in which s 21 of the SSFD Act is to be construed. It is also to be read and construed as if it formed part of the Real Property Act 1900 (NSW). Section 21 is set out at [14] above.

41. Neither the SSFD Act nor the Real Property Act contain a definition of “deal” or “dealt with”. The definition of “Dealing” in the Real Property Act as meaning an instrument which is registrable or capable of being made registrable under the provisions of that Act or in respect of which any recording in the Register is required or permitted to be made (Real Property Act, s 3) is not directly applicable to the interpretation of the words “dealt with” in s 21. Nonetheless, when s 21 is construed in the context of Div 2 of Pt 2 of the SSFD Act, and as if it formed part of the Real Property Act, it can be seen that the words “dealt with” refer to dealings in a conveyancing sense, that is, as referring to matters such as the creation, disposition, variation, surrender or extinguishment of interests in or rights over common property.

42. This was not the construction given to s 21 in Thoo. Dr Thoo was the proprietor of a lot in a strata scheme that included shops. He obtained development approval for the subdivision of the lot into separate retail tenancies. He wished to lease the shops for the commercial cooking and selling of food. To comply with the conditions of development approval he wished to have the existing exhaust ventilation system in the common property that serviced all of the shops in the strata scheme upgraded. This would have required the installation of an additional system. The owners corporation refused to give Dr Thoo the guaranteed exhaust capacity he wanted. He contended that the owners corporation was obliged by s 62(2) of the SSM Act to renew and replace fixtures or fittings comprised in the common property. He sought a mandatory injunction and damages for breach of s 62(2). As an alternative to his case based upon s 62(2), Dr Thoo contended that he had and continued to have the right in common with other lot owners to use and enjoy the common property that included the existing mechanical ventilation system in accordance with the by-laws (at [132]). Tobias AJA said that the owners corporation’s status as trustee of the common property for the lot owners did not impose upon it any duty to act in any positive way, except in so far as that duty was imposed by statute. Any statutory duty aside, the only duties imposed on the owners corporation as trustee of the common property were negative duties applicable to fiduciaries (at [137]). Barrett JA also said that the relationship between the owners corporation as trustee of the common property on behalf of the lot owners creates by implication the proscriptive duties of fiduciaries, but creates no basis for imposing prescriptive duties independent of those created by statute (at [21]).

43. Preston CJ of the Land and Environment Court agreed with the reasons of Barrett JA and Tobias AJA.

44. These observations were addressed to the issue of what duties were owed by the owners corporation as trustee of the common property to lot owners as equitable tenants in common of the common property. Thoo holds that the owners corporation as trustee of the common property does not owe any positive duty, other than a duty imposed by statute, to lot owners as beneficial owners of the common property. It says nothing as to whether the owners corporation as legal owner of the common property owes duties independently of statutory duties to lot owners in their capacity not as beneficial owners of common property, but as legal owners of their lots, in the same way as an owners corporation as legal owner of the common property will owe duties to third parties.

45. In Thoo Tobias AJA added the following (at [141] and [142]):

    “[141]    The negative quality of such general law duties as arise from the trustee status of the owners corporation with respect to common property is emphasized by s 21 of the [SSFD Act]:

    Common property shall not be capable of being dealt with except in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the Strata Schemes Management Act 1996.

    [142]    The expression ‘deal with’, used in relation to property, is wide. It would clearly include any action required to be taken by the owners corporation pursuant to ss 62(1) and (2), subject to the passing of a special resolution pursuant to s 62(3). In that respect any equitable right of a lot owner to require the owners corporation to replace the MEVS, as Dr Thoo seeks, would be trumped by a valid special resolution passed pursuant to s 62(3). The purpose of s 21 is clearly to preclude any form of action by the owners corporation in relation to the common property that is not contemplated and expressly permitted by the strata titles legislation.”

46. Again, his Honour was addressing the rights arising from the exercise of the powers of the owners corporation and lot owners with respect to the common property. His Honour was not addressing the duties owed by the owners corporation as the legal owner of the common property to persons owning other property, whether as lot owners or outside the strata scheme.

47. The reasoning in Thoo at [142] was not a necessary part of the reasoning for the decision in Thoo. With respect, I do not agree that the expression “dealt with” where used in s 21 of the SSFD Act includes actions required to be taken by the owners corporation to maintain the common property or to keep it in a state of good and serviceable repair, or to replace fixtures or fittings in the common property. In the context in which the words “dealt with” are used in s 21, they do not extend to such conduct. I do not agree with the last sentence of [142] of Thoo that the purpose of s 21 of the SSFD Act is to preclude the owners corporation from taking any action in relation to the common property that is not contemplated and expressly permitted by the strata titles legislation.

48. Under s 62(3) of the SSM Act an owners corporation is not required properly to maintain and keep in a state of good and serviceable repair the common property if the owners corporation determines by special resolution that it is inappropriate to do so and that the decision not to do so will not affect the safety of the building structure or common property. As a matter of internal management between the owners corporation and the lot owners, the owners corporation would not have the power to carry out maintenance or keep the common property in a state of good and serviceable repair if a special resolution is passed in terms of s 62(3). But that does not mean that as against third parties, or as against lot owners in their capacity as such, the owners corporation may not owe a duty of care or a duty not to create or to abate a nuisance.